debacle
::A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waters which breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and disperses blocks of stone and other débris.
turgid
::Distended beyond the natural state by some internal agent or expansive force; swelled; swollen; bloated; inflated; tumid; -- especially applied to an enlarged part of the body.
vilify
::To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to disgrace.
zenith
::That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; -- opposed to <ant>nadir</ant>.
zealot
::One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan.
zephyr
::The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze.
countermanded
::A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command.
Equivocation
::The use of expressions susceptible of a double signification, with a purpose to mislead.
stagnant
::That stagnates; not flowing; not running in a current or steam; motionless; hence, impure or foul from want of motion
legato
::Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner. It is often indicated by a tie, thus �, �, or �, �, written over or under the notes to be so performed; -- opposed to <contr>staccato</contr>.
staccato
::Disconnected; separated; distinct; -- a direction to perform the notes of a passage in a short, distinct, and pointed manner. It is opposed to <contr>legato</contr>, and often indicated by heavy accents written over or under the notes, or by dots when the performance is to be less distinct and emphatic.
squat
::Sitting on the hams or heels; sitting close to the ground; cowering; crouching.
squander
::The act of squandering; waste.
squalor
::Squalidness; foulness; filthiness; squalidity.
squabble
::A scuffle; a wrangle; a brawl.
spurn
::A kick; a blow with the foot.
spurious
::Not proceeding from the true source, or from the source pretended; not genuine; counterfeit; false; adulterate.
nimble
::Light and quick in motion; moving with ease and celerity; lively; swift.
spry
::Having great power of leaping or running; nimble; active.
spruce
::Neat, without elegance or dignity; smart; trim; -- formerly applied to things with a serious meaning; now chiefly applied to persons.
sportive
::Tending to, engaged in, or provocative of, sport; gay; frolicsome; playful; merry.
sporadic
::Occurring singly, or apart from other things of the same kind, or in scattered instances; separate; single
transpose
::To change the place or order of; to substitute one for the other of; to exchange, in respect of position.
spoonerism
spontaneity
::The quality or state of being spontaneous, or acting from native feeling, proneness, or temperament, without constraint or external force.
splice
::A junction or joining made by splicing.
sphinx-like
spendthrift
::Prodigal; extravagant; wasteful.
spectrum
::An apparition; a specter.
spectral
::Of or pertaining to a specter; ghosty.
specious
::Presenting a pleasing appearance; pleasing in form or look; showy.
spawn
::The ova, or eggs, of fishes, oysters, and other aquatic animals.
spatula
::An implement shaped like a knife, flat, thin, and somewhat flexible, used for spreading paints, fine plasters, drugs in compounding prescriptions, etc. Cf. Palette knife, under palette.
spatial
::Of or pertaining to space.
spate
::A river flood; an overflow or inundation.
spat
::imp. of spit.
spasmodic
::Of or pertaining to spasm; consisting in spasm; occuring in, or characterized by, spasms.
spartan
::Of or pertaining to Sparta, especially to ancient Sparta; hence, hardy; undaunted
sparse
::Thinly scattered; set or planted here and there; not being dense or close together.
spangle
::A small plate or boss of shining metal; something brilliant used as an ornament, especially when stitched on the dress.
sordid
::Filthy; foul; dirty.
soporific
::Causing sleep; tending to cause sleep; soporiferous.
sophomoric
::Of or pertaining to a sophomore; resembling a sophomore; hence, pretentious; inflated in style or manner.
sophistry
::The art or process of reasoning; logic.
sophisticated
::Adulterated; not pure; not genuine.
sophist
::One of a class of men who taught eloquence, philosophy, and politics in ancient Greece; especially, one of those who, by their fallacious but plausible reasoning, puzzled inquirers after truth, weakened the faith of the people, and drew upon themselves general hatred and contempt.
sonnet
::A short poem, -- usually amatory.
sonic
sonorous
::Giving sound when struck; resonant.
somnolent
::Sleepy; drowsy; inclined to sleep.
somnambulist
::A person who is subject to somnambulism; one who walks in his sleep; a sleepwalker; a noctambulist.
somber
::Dull; dusky; somewhat dark; gloomy
somatic
::Of or pertaining to the body as a whole; corporeal.
solvent
::Having the power of dissolving; dissolving.
soluble
::Susceptible of being dissolved in a fluid; capable of solution.
solstice
::A stopping or standing still of the sun.
solitude
::state of being alone, or withdrawn from society; a lonely life; loneliness.
soliloquy
::The act of talking to one's self; a discourse made by one in solitude to one's self; monologue.
solicitous
::Disposed to solicit; eager to obtain something desirable, or to avoid anything evil; concerned; anxious; careful.
solicit
::To ask from with earnestness; to make petition to; to apply to for obtaining something.
solemnity
::A rite or ceremony performed with religious reverence; religious or ritual ceremony.
solecism
::An impropriety or incongruity of language in the combination of words or parts of a sentence; esp., deviation from the idiom of a language or from the rules of syntax.
solder
::A metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic cement.
solace
::Comfort in grief; alleviation of grief or anxiety; also, that which relieves in distress; that which cheers or consoles; relief.
sojourn
::A temporary residence, as that of a traveler in a foreign land.
sodden
::To be seethed; to become sodden.
sober
::Temperate in the use of spirituous liquors; habitually temperate.
sobriety
::Habitual soberness or temperance as to the use of spirituous liquors.
snuffle
::The act of snuffing; a sound made by the air passing through the nose when obstructed.
snivel
::Mucus from the nose; snot.
snicker
::A half suppressed, broken laugh.
smolder
::Smoke; smother.
smirk
::Nice,; smart; spruce; affected; simpering.
smelt
::imp. & p. p. of smell.
smattering
::A slight, superficial knowledge of something; sciolism.
slur
::A mark or stain; hence, a slight reproach or disgrace; a stigma; a reproachful intimation; an innuendo.
sluice
::An artifical passage for water, fitted with a valve or gate, as in a mill stream, for stopping or regulating the flow; also, a water gate or flood gate.
sluggish
::Habitually idle and lazy; slothful; dull; inactive.
sluggard
::Sluggish; lazy.
sleigh
::Sly.
sledge
::A strong vehicle with low runners or low wheels; or one without wheels or runners, made of plank slightly turned up at one end, used for transporting loads upon the snow, ice, or bare ground; a sled.
slovenly
::Having the habits of a sloven; negligent of neatness and order, especially in dress.
slough
::imp. of slee, to slay. Slew.
sloth
::Slowness; tardiness.
slither
::To slide; to glide.
slipshod
::Wearing shoes or slippers down at the heel.
slight
::Not decidedly marked; not forcible; inconsiderable; unimportant; insignificant; not severe; weak; gentle; -- applied in a great variety of circumstances
slew
::imp. of slay.
sleight
::Cunning; craft; artful practice.
sleeper
::One who sleeps; a slumberer; hence, a drone, or lazy person.
sleazy
::Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy.
slapdash
::In a bold, careless manner; at random.
slander
::A false tale or report maliciously uttered, tending to injure the reputation of another; the malicious utterance of defamatory reports; the dissemination of malicious tales or suggestions to the injury of another.
slake
::To go out; to become extinct.
slag
::The dross, or recrement, of a metal; also, vitrified cinders.
slack
::Lax; not tense; not hard drawn; not firmly extended.
slacken
::A spongy, semivitrifled substance which miners or smelters mix with the ores of metals to prevent their fusion.
skulk
::A number of foxes together.
skulduggery(skullduggery)
frisk
::Lively; brisk; frolicsome; frisky.
skittish
::Easily frightened; timorous; shy; untrustworthy.
skirmish
::A slight fight in war; a light or desultory combat between detachments from armies, or between detached and small bodies of troops.
skinflint
::A penurious person; a miser; a niggard.
skimp
::Scanty.
skiff
::A small, light boat.
skeptic
::Of or pertaining to a sceptic or skepticism; characterized by skepticism; hesitating to admit the certainly of doctrines or principles; doubting of everything.
sinuous
::Bending in and out; of a serpentine or undulating form; winding; crooked.
sinister
::On the left hand, or the side of the left hand; left; -- opposed to <ant>dexter</ant>, or <ant>right</ant>.
singular
::Separate or apart from others; single; distinct.
sinewy
::Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, a sinew or sinews.
sinecure
::An ecclesiastical benefice without the care of souls.
simulate
::Feigned; pretended.
simplistic
::Of or pertaining to simples, or a simplist.
simper
::A constrained, self-conscious smile; an affected, silly smile; a smirk.
simile
::A word or phrase by which anything is likened, in one or more of its aspects, to something else; a similitude; a poetical or imaginative comparison.
simian
::Of or pertaining to the family Simiadæ, which, in its widest sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike.
silt
::Mud or fine earth deposited from running or standing water.
sidereal
::Relating to the stars; starry; astral.
sibylline
::Pertaining to the sibyls; uttered, written, or composed by sibyls; like the productions of sibyls.
sibling
::of or pertaining to a sibling, n.
shyster
::A trickish knave; one who carries on any business, especially legal business, in a mean and dishonest way.
sidetrack
::To transfer to a siding from a main line of track.
shunt
::A turning off to a side or short track, that the principal track may be left free.
shun
::To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape from; to eschew.
shrewd
::Inclining to shrew; disposing to curse or scold; hence, vicious; malicious; evil; wicked; mischievous; vexatious; rough; unfair; shrewish.
shrew
::Wicked; malicious.
shoddy
::Made wholly or in part of shoddy; containing shoddy; ; hence, colloquially, not genuine; sham; pretentious.
shirk
::One who lives by shifts and tricks; one who avoids the performance of duty or labor.
shimmer
::A faint, tremulous light; a gleaming; a glimmer.
sherbet
::A refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some fruit, diluted, sweetened, and flavored in various ways
sheathe
::To put into a sheath, case, or scabbard; to inclose or cover with, or as with, a sheath or case.
sheaf
::A sheave.
plane
::Without elevations or depressions; even; level; flat; lying in, or constituting, a plane.
shaving
::The act of one who, or that which, shaves; specifically, the act of cutting off the beard with a razor.
shard
::A plant; chard.
shambles
::One of a succession of niches or platforms, one above another, to hold ore which is thrown successively from platform to platform, and thus raised to a higher level.
sham
::False; counterfeit; pretended; feigned; unreal.
shackle
::Stubble.
sextant
::The sixth part of a circle.
severity
::The quality or state of being severe.
sever
::To suffer disjunction; to be parted, or rent asunder; to be separated; to part; to separate.
servitude
::The state of voluntary or compulsory subjection to a master; the condition of being bound to service; the condition of a slave; slavery; bondage; hence, a state of slavish dependence.
servile
::Of or pertaining to a servant or slave; befitting a servant or a slave; proceeding from dependence; hence, meanly submissive; slavish; mean; cringing; fawning
serrated
::Notched on the edge, like a saw.
serpentine
::Resembling a serpent; having the shape or qualities of a serpent; subtle; winding or turning one way and the other, like a moving serpent; anfractuous; meandering; sinuous; zigzag.
serenity
::The quality or state of being serene; clearness and calmness; quietness; stillness; peace.
serendipity
sere
::Dry; withered. Same as sear.
sequester
::Sequestration; separation.
sepulcher
::The place in which the dead body of a human being is interred, or a place set apart for that purpose; a grave; a tomb.
septic
::Of the seventh degree or order.
lookout
::A careful looking or watching for any object or event.
sentinel
::One who watches or guards; specifically (Mil.), a soldier set to guard an army, camp, or other place, from surprise, to observe the approach of danger, and give notice of it; a sentry.
sentient
::Having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception.
sententious
::Abounding with sentences, axioms, and maxims; full of meaning; terse and energetic in expression; pithy.
sensuous
::Of or pertaining to the senses, or sensible objects; addressing the senses; suggesting pictures or images of sense.
voluptuous
::Full of delight or pleasure, especially that of the senses; ministering to sensuous or sensual gratification; exciting sensual desires; luxurious; sensual.
sensual
::Pertaining to, consisting in, or affecting, the sense, or bodily organs of perception; relating to, or concerning, the body, in distinction from the spirit.
sensitization
feebleminded
::Weak in intellectual power; wanting firmness or constancy; irresolute; vacillating; imbecile.
senility
::The quality or state of being senile; old age.
seminary
::Belonging to seed; seminal.
seminal
::Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, seed or semen.
semblance
::Seeming; appearance; show; figure; form.
seismic
::Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake.
seine
::A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish.
seethe
::To be a state of ebullition or violent commotion; to be hot; to boil.
seep
::To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.
seemly
::Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous.
run-down
seedy
::Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.
sedulous
::Diligent in application or pursuit; constant, steady, and persevering in business, or in endeavors to effect an object; steadily industrious; assiduous.
sedition
::The raising of commotion in a state, not amounting to insurrection; conduct tending to treason, but without an overt act; excitement of discontent against the government, or of resistance to lawful authority.
sedentary
::Accustomed to sit much or long.
sedate
::Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not passionate or giddy; composed; staid.
secular
::Coming or observed once in an age or a century.
denomination
::The act of naming or designating.
sectarian
::Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect; bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination.
sect
::A cutting; a scion.
secrete
::To deposit in a place of hiding; to hide; to conceal.
seclusion
::The act of secluding, or the state of being secluded; separation from society or connection; a withdrawing; privacy.
secession
::The act of seceding; separation from fellowship or association with others, as in a religious or political organization; withdrawal.
seasonable
::Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time for the purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely.
seasonal
::Of or pertaining to the seasons.
season
::One of the divisions of the year, marked by alterations in the length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature, moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth with respect to the sun. In the north temperate zone, four seasons, namely, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, are generally recognized. Some parts of the world have three seasons, -- the dry, the rainy, and the cold; other parts have but two, -- the dry and the rainy.
seasoned
::One of the divisions of the year, marked by alterations in the length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature, moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth with respect to the sun. In the north temperate zone, four seasons, namely, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, are generally recognized. Some parts of the world have three seasons, -- the dry, the rainy, and the cold; other parts have but two, -- the dry and the rainy.
hide
::An abode or dwelling.
brand
::A burning piece of wood; or a stick or piece of wood partly burnt, whether burning or after the fire is extinct.
scorch
::To be burnt on the surface; to be parched; to be dried up.
char
::One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus, allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in mountainous regions in Europe. In the United States, the brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) is sometimes called a char.
sear
::Dry; withered; no longer green; -- applied to leaves.
base
::Of little, or less than the usual, height; of low growth.
seamy
::Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them.
hull
::The outer covering of anything, particularly of a nut or of grain; the outer skin of a kernel; the husk.
scuttle
::A broad, shallow basket.
scurvy
::Covered or affected with scurf or scabs; scabby; scurfy; specifically, diseased with the scurvy.
scurry
::Act of scurrying; hurried movement.
scurrilous
::Using the low and indecent language of the meaner sort of people, or such as only the license of buffoons can warrant.
shuffle
::The act of shuffling; a mixing confusedly; a slovenly, dragging motion.
scuffle
::A rough, haphazard struggle, or trial of strength; a disorderly wrestling at close quarters.
scrutinize
::To make scrutiny.
scrupulous
::Full of scruples; inclined to scruple; nicely doubtful; hesitating to determine or to act, from a fear of offending or of doing wrong.
scruple
::A weight of twenty grains; the third part of a dram.
scourge
::A lash; a strap or cord; especially, a lash used to inflict pain or punishment; an instrument of punishment or discipline; a whip.
stamp
::The act of stamping, as with the foot.
score
::A notch or incision; especially, one that is made as a tally mark; hence, a mark, or line, made for the purpose of account.
scotch
::Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants; Scottish.
scoff
::Derision; ridicule; mockery; derisive or mocking expression of scorn, contempt, or reproach.
scintillate
::To emit sparks, or fine igneous particles.
scintilla
::A spark; the least particle; an iota; a tittle.
schism
::Division or separation
scheme
::A combination of things connected and adjusted by design; a system.
schematic
::Of or pertaining to a scheme or a schema.
scenario
::A preliminary sketch of the plot, or main incidents, of an opera.
refuse
::Refused; rejected; hence; left as unworthy of acceptance; of no value; worthless.
scavenge
::To remove the burned gases from the cylinder after a working stroke.
scapegoat
::A goat upon whose head were symbolically placed the sins of the people, after which he was suffered to escape into the wilderness.
scanty
::Wanting amplitude or extent; narrow; small; not abundant.
scale
::The dish of a balance; hence, the balance itself; an instrument or machine for weighing; ; -- chiefly used in the plural when applied to the whole instrument or apparatus for weighing. Also used figuratively.
scaffold
::A temporary structure of timber, boards, etc., for various purposes, as for supporting workmen and materials in building, for exhibiting a spectacle upon, for holding the spectators at a show, etc.
scad
::A small carangoid fish (Trachurus saurus) abundant on the European coast, and less common on the American. The name is applied also to several allied species.
scabbard
::The case in which the blade of a sword, dagger, etc., is kept; a sheath.
savory
::Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell.
savor
::That property of a thing which affects the organs of taste or smell; taste and odor; flavor; relish; scent.
savant
::A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a person eminent for acquirements.
saunter
::A sauntering, or a sauntering place.
satyr
::A sylvan deity or demigod, represented as part man and part goat, and characterized by riotous merriment and lasciviousness.
saturnine
::Born under, or influenced by, the planet Saturn.
saturate
::Filled to repletion; saturated; soaked.
satirical
satire
::A composition, generally poetical, holding up vice or folly to reprobation; a keen or severe exposure of what in public or private morals deserves rebuke; an invective poem.
satiate
::Filled to satiety; glutted; sated; -- followed by with or of.
satellite
::Situated near; accompanying.
doze
::A light sleep; a drowse.
sate
::imp. of sit.
sartorial
::Of or pertaining to a tailor or his work.
sardonic
::Forced; unnatural; insincere; hence, derisive, mocking, malignant, or bitterly sarcastic; -- applied only to a laugh, smile, or some facial semblance of gayety.
sarcasm
::A keen, reproachful expression; a satirical remark uttered with some degree of scorn or contempt; a taunt; a gibe; a cutting jest.
sap
::The juice of plants of any kind, especially the ascending and descending juices or circulating fluid essential to nutrition.
sanguine
::Having the color of blood; red.
sanguinary
::Attended with much bloodshed; bloody; murderous.
sanctuary
::The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem.
sanction
::Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by giving authority to it; confirmation; approbation.
sanctimonious
::Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly.
salvage
::Savage.
salutary
::Wholesome; healthful; promoting health.
salubrious
::Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health.
sallow
::Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with yellow.
saline
::Consisting of salt, or containing salt.
salient
::Moving by leaps or springs; leaping; bounding; jumping.
salacious
::Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous.
sage
::Having nice discernment and powers of judging; prudent; grave; sagacious.
sagacious
::Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a trail.
saga
::A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time.
sadistic
sacrosanct
::Sacred; inviolable.
sacrilegious
::Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving sacrilege; profane; impious.
saccharine
::Of or pertaining to sugar; having the qualities of sugar; producing sugar; sweet.
saboteur
ruthless
::Having no ruth; cruel; pitiless.
rusticate
::To go into or reside in the country; to ruralize.
rustic
::Of or pertaining to the country; rural.
ruse
::An artifice; trick; stratagem; wile; fraud; deceit.
runic
::Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen.
rummage
::A place or room for the stowage of cargo in a ship; also, the act of stowing cargo; the pulling and moving about of packages incident to close stowage; -- formerly written romage.
ruminant
::Chewing the cud; characterized by chewing again what has been swallowed; of or pertaining to the Ruminantia.
ruminate
::Having a hard albumen penetrated by irregular channels filled with softer matter, as the nutmeg and the seeds of the North American papaw.
ruffian
::Brutal; cruel; savagely boisterous; murderous.
rue
::A perennial suffrutescent plant (Ruta graveolens), having a strong, heavy odor and a bitter taste; herb of grace. It is used in medicine.
rudimentary
::Of or pertaining to rudiments; consisting in first principles; elementary; initial.
ruddy
::Of a red color; red, or reddish.
rubric
::Colored in, or marked with, red; placed in rubrics.
mason
::One whose occupation is to build with stone or brick; also, one who prepares stone for building purposes.
rubble
::Water-worn or rough broken stones; broken bricks, etc., used in coarse masonry, or to fill up between the facing courses of walls.
stampede
::A wild, headlong scamper, or running away, of a number of animals; usually caused by fright; hence, any sudden flight or dispersion, as of a crowd or an army in consequence of a panic.
rout
::A bellowing; a shouting; noise; clamor; uproar; disturbance; tumult.
rousing
::Having power to awaken or excite; exciting.
rotund
::Round; circular; spherical.
rotundity
::The state or quality of being rotu�; roundness; sphericity; circularity.
rotunda
::A round building; especially, one that is round both on the outside and inside, like the Pantheon at Rome. Less properly, but very commonly, used for a large round room.
rote
::A root.
pulpit
::Of or pertaining to the pulpit, or preaching
rostrum
::The beak or head of a ship.
roster
::A register or roll showing the order in which officers, enlisted men, companies, or regiments are called on to serve.
roseate
::Full of roses; rosy.
roil
::To wander; to roam.
rococo
::Of or pertaining to the style called rococo; like rococo; florid; fantastic.
robust
::Evincing strength; indicating vigorous health; strong; sinewy; muscular; vigorous; sound.
rivulet
::A small stream or brook; a streamlet.
rivet
::A metallic pin with a head, used for uniting two plates or pieces of material together, by passing it through them and then beating or pressing down the point so that it shall spread out and form a second head; a pin or bolt headed or clinched at both ends.
riveting
::The act of joining with rivets; the act of spreading out and clinching the end, as of a rivet, by beating or pressing.
rile
::To render turbid or muddy; to stir up; to roil.
rigor
::Rigidity; stiffness.
rigid
::Firm; stiff; unyielding; not pliant; not flexible.
rig
::A ridge.
rift
::p. p. of rive.
rife
::Prevailing; prevalent; abounding.
rider
::One who, or that which, rides.
riddle
::A sieve with coarse meshes, usually of wire, for separating coarser materials from finer, as chaff from grain, cinders from ashes, or gravel from sand.
ribald
::Low; base; mean; filthy; obscene.
rhetoric
::The art of composition; especially, elegant composition in prose.
rhapsody
::A recitation or song of a rhapsodist; a portion of an epic poem adapted for recitation, or usually recited, at one time; hence, a division of the Iliad or the Odyssey; -- called also a book.
rhapsodize
::To utter rhapsodies.
revulsion
::A strong pulling or drawing back; withdrawal.
revoke
::The act of revoking.
revile
::Reproach; reviling.
backslide
::To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually the faith and practice of a religion that has been professed.
relapse
::A sliding or falling back, especially into a former bad state, either of body or morals; backsliding; the state of having fallen back.
revert
::One who, or that which, reverts.
reverie
::A loose or irregular train of thought occurring in musing or mediation; deep musing; daydream.
reverend
::Worthy of reverence; entitled to respect mingled with fear and affection; venerable.
reverent
::Disposed to revere; impressed with reverence; submissive; humble; respectful.
reverberate
::Reverberant.
revelry
::The act of engaging in a revel; noisy festivity; reveling.
retrospective
::Looking backward; contemplating things past; -- opposed to <ant>prospective</ant>.
retrograde
::Apparently moving backward, and contrary to the succession of the signs, that is, from east to west, as a planet.
enact
::Purpose; determination.
retroactive
::Fitted or designed to retroact; operating by returned action; affecting what is past; retrospective.
retrieve
::A seeking again; a discovery.
retribution
::The act of retributing; repayment.
retrench
::To cause or suffer retrenchment; specifically, to cut down living expenses.
retract
::The pricking of a horse's foot in nailing on a shoe.
retort
::The return of, or reply to, an argument, charge, censure, incivility, taunt, or witticism; a quick and witty or severe response.
retiring
::Reserved; shy; not forward or obtrusive
retinue
::The body of retainers who follow a prince or other distinguished person; a train of attendants; a suite.
reticent
::Inclined to keep silent; reserved; uncommunicative.
retentive
::Having power to retain.
retaliate
::To return like for like; specifically, to return evil for evil.
retain
::To belong; to pertain.
resuscitate
::Restored to life.
resurrect
::To take from the grave; to disinter.
resurge
resumption
::The act of resuming
restraint
::The act or process of restraining, or of holding back or hindering from motion or action, in any manner; hindrance of the will, or of any action, physical or mental.
restive
::Unwilling to go on; obstinate in refusing to move forward; stubborn; drawing back.
restitution
::The act of restoring anything to its rightful owner, or of making good, or of giving an equivalent for any loss, damage, or injury; indemnification.
responsiveness
resplendent
::Shining with brilliant luster; very bright.
respite
::A putting off of that which was appointed; a postponement or delay.
respiration
::The act of respiring or breathing again, or catching one's breath.
resound
::Return of sound; echo.
resonant
::Returning, or capable of returning, sound; fitted to resound; resounding; echoing back.
resolve
::The act of resolving or making clear; resolution; solution.
resolution
::The act, operation, or process of resolving.
elastic
::Springing back; having a power or inherent property of returning to the form from which a substance is bent, drawn, pressed, or twisted; springy; having the power of rebounding
resilient
::Leaping back; rebounding; recoiling.
resign
::To sign back; to return by a formal act; to yield to another; to surrender; -- said especially of office or emolument. Hence, to give up; to yield; to submit; -- said of the wishes or will, or of something valued; -- also often used reflexively.
resignation
::The act of resigning or giving up, as a claim, possession, office, or the like; surrender.
residual
::Pertaining to a residue; remaining after a part is taken.
residue
::That which remains after a part is taken, separated, removed, or designated; remnant; remainder.
reserve
::The act of reserving, or keeping back; reservation.
resentment
::The act of resenting.
rescind
::To cut off; to abrogate; to annul.
requite
::To repay; in a good sense, to recompense; to return (an equivalent) in good; to reward; in a bad sense, to retaliate; to return (evil) for evil; to punish.
requisition
::The act of requiring, as of right; a demand or application made as by authority.
requisite
::Required by the nature of things, or by circumstances; so needful that it can not be dispensed with; necessary; indispensable.
mass
::The sacrifice in the sacrament of the Eucharist, or the consecration and oblation of the host.
requiem
::A mass said or sung for the repose of a departed soul.
renegade
::An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religious faith.
rendition
::The act of rendering; especially, the act of surrender, as of fugitives from justice, at the claim of a foreign government; also, surrender in war.
rendezvous
::A place appointed for a meeting, or at which persons customarily meet.
render
::One who rends.
rend
::To be rent or torn; to become parted; to separate; to split.
remunerative
::Affording remuneration.
remorse
::The anguish, like gnawing pain, excited by a sense of guilt; compunction of conscience for a crime committed, or for the sins of one's past life.
remonstrate
::To present and urge reasons in opposition to an act, measure, or any course of proceedings; to expostulate.
remnant
::Remaining; yet left.
remittance
::The act of transmitting money, bills, or the like, esp. to a distant place, as in satisfaction of a demand, or in discharge of an obligation.
remit
::To abate in force or in violence; to grow less intense; to become moderated; to abate; to relax
remission
::The act of remitting, surrendering, resigning, or giving up.
remiss
::Not energetic or exact in duty or business; not careful or prompt in fulfilling engagements; negligent; careless; tardy; behindhand; lagging; slack; hence, lacking earnestness or activity; languid; slow.
reminiscent
::Recalling to mind, or capable of recalling to mind; having remembrance; reminding one of something.
reminiscence
::The act or power of recalling past experience; the state of being reminiscent; remembrance; memory.
remediable
::Capable of being remedied or cured.
relish
::A pleasing taste; flavor that gratifies the palate; hence, enjoyable quality; power of pleasing.
relinquish
::To withdraw from; to leave behind; to desist from; to abandon; to quit.
relic
::That which remains; that which is left after loss or decay; a remaining portion; a remnant.
relevant
::Relieving; lending aid or support.
relent
::Stay; stop; delay.
relegate
::To remove, usually to an inferior position; to consign; to transfer; specifically, to send into exile; to banish.
rejuvenate
::To render young again.
comeback
rejoinder
::An answer to a reply; or, in general, an answer or reply.
reiterate
::Reiterated; repeated.
reimburse
::To replace in a treasury or purse, as an equivalent for what has been taken, lost, or expended; to refund; to pay back; to restore.
rehabilitate
::To invest or clothe again with some right, authority, or dignity; to restore to a former capacity; to reinstate; to qualify again; to restore, as a delinquent, to a former right, rank, or privilege lost or forfeited; -- a term of civil and canon law.
regiment
::Government; mode of ruling; rule; authority; regimen.
regimen
::Orderly government; system of order; adminisration.
regime
::Mode or system of rule or management; character of government, or of the prevailing social system.
regicide
::One who kills or who murders a king; specifically (Eng. Hist.), one of the judges who condemned Charles I. to death.
penology
::The science or art of punishment.
regeneration
::The act of regenerating, or the state of being regenerated.
regatta
::Originally, a gondola race in Venice; now, a rowing or sailing race, or a series of such races.
regale
::A prerogative of royalty.
regal
::Of or pertaining to a king; kingly; royal.
refute
::To disprove and overthrow by argument, evidence, or countervailing proof; to prove to be false or erroneous; to confute
refurbish
::To furbish anew.
gleam
::A shoot of light; a small stream of light; a beam; a ray; a glimpse.
refulgent
::Casting a bright light; radiant; brilliant; resplendent; shining; splendid.
chorus
::A band of singers and dancers.
refrain
::The burden of a song; a phrase or verse which recurs at the end of each of the separate stanzas or divisions of a poetic composition.
refractory
::Obstinate in disobedience; contumacious; stubborn; unmanageable.
refraction
refectory
::A room for refreshment; originally, a dining hall in monasteries or convents.
stink
::A strong, offensive smell; a disgusting odor; a stench.
stench
::A smell; an odor.
reek
::A rick.
redundant
::Exceeding what is natural or necessary; superabundant; exuberant.
redress
::The act of redressing; a making right; reformation; correction; amendment.
redoubtable
::Formidable; dread; terrible to foes; ; hence, valiant; -- often in contempt or burlesque.
redolent
::Diffusing odor or fragrance; spreading sweet scent; scented; odorous; smelling; -- usually followed by of.
recurrent
::Returning from time to time; recurring.
recuperate
::To recover health; to regain strength; to convalesce.
recline
::Having a reclining posture; leaning; reclining.
recumbent
::Leaning; reclining; lying. Hence, figuratively; Resting; inactive; idle.
rectitude
::Straightness.
rectify
::To make or set right; to correct from a wrong, erroneous, or false state; to amend
recrimination
::The act of recriminating; an accusation brought by the accused against the accuser; a counter accusation.
recreant
::Crying for mercy, as a combatant in the trial by battle; yielding; cowardly; mean-spirited; craven.
makeshift
::That with which one makes shift; a temporary expedient, with implication of inferiority to the more usual object or means.
resort
::Active power or movement; spring.
recourse
::A coursing back, or coursing again, along the line of a previous coursing; renewed course; return; retreat; recurence.
recount
::A counting again, as of votes.
reconnaissance
::An examination or survey of a region in reference to its general geological character.
recondite
::Hidden from the mental or intellectual view; secret; abstruse.
reconcile
::To become reconciled.
recluse
::Shut up, sequestered; retired from the world or from public notice; solitary; living apart
reciprocate
::To move forward and backward alternately; to recur in vicissitude; to act interchangeably; to alternate.
reciprocal
::Recurring in vicissitude; alternate.
recipient
::Receiving; receptive.
recidivism
::The state or quality of being recidivous; relapse
recess
::A withdrawing or retiring; a moving back; retreat.
recession
::The act of receding or withdrawing, as from a place, a claim, or a demand.
receptive
::Having the quality of receiving; able or inclined to take in, absorb, hold, or contain; receiving or containing.
fashion
::The make or form of anything; the style, shape, appearance, or mode of structure; pattern, model; ; workmanship; execution.
recast
::To throw again.
recapitulate
::To sum up, or enumerate by heads or topics, what has been previously said; to repeat briefly the substance.
recant
::To revoke a declaration or proposition; to unsay what has been said; to retract.
recalcitrant
::Kicking back; recalcitrating; hence, showing repugnance or opposition; refractory.
rebuttal
::The giving of evidence on the part of a plaintiff to destroy the effect of evidence introduced by the defendant in the same suit.
rebus
::A mode of expressing words and phrases by pictures of objects whose names resemble those words, or the syllables of which they are composed; enigmatical representation of words by figures; hence, a peculiar form of riddle made up of such representations.
rebuke
::A direct and pointed reproof; a reprimand; also, chastisement; punishment.
snub
::A knot; a protuberance; a song.
rebuff
::Repercussion, or beating back; a quick and sudden resistance.
rebate
::Diminution.
reaper
::One who reaps.
realm
::A royal jurisdiction or domain; a region which is under the dominion of a king; a kingdom.
reinstate
::To place again in possession, or in a former state; to restore to a state from which one had been removed; to instate again.
reactionary
::Being, causing, or favoring reaction.
raze
::A Shakespearean word (used once) supposed to mean the same as race, a root.
ravine
::A torrent of water.
ravenous
::Devouring with rapacious eagerness; furiously voracious; hungry even to rage.
ravel
::To become untwisted or unwoven; to be disentangled; to be relieved of intricacy.
rave
::imp. of rive.
maraud
::An excursion for plundering.
ravage
::Desolation by violence; violent ruin or destruction; devastation; havoc; waste
raucous
::Hoarse; harsh; rough.
ration
::A fixed daily allowance of provisions assigned to a soldier in the army, or a sailor in the navy, for his subsistence.
rational
::Relating to the reason; not physical; mental.
rationalize
::To use, and rely on, reason in forming a theory, belief, etc., especially in matters of religion: to accord with the principles of rationalism.
rationale
::An explanation or exposition of the principles of some opinion, action, hypothesis, phenomenon, or the like; also, the principles themselves.
ratiocination
::The process of reasoning, or deducing conclusions from premises; deductive reasoning.
ratify
::To approve and sanction; to make valid; to confirm; to establish; to settle; especially, to give sanction to, as something done by an agent or servant
rasp
::A coarse file, on which the cutting prominences are distinct points raised by the oblique stroke of a sharp punch, instead of lines raised by a chisel, as on the true file.
raspy
::Like a rasp, or the sound made by a rasp; grating.
rare
::Early.
rarefied
::To become less dense; to become thin and porous.
rapt
::imp. & p. p. of rap, to snatch away.
rapport
::Relation; proportion; conformity; correspondence; accord.
rapacious
::Given to plunder; disposed or accustomed to seize by violence; seizing by force.
rant
::High-sounding language, without importance or dignity of thought; boisterous, empty declamation; bombast.
rankle
::To become, or be, rank; to grow rank or strong; to be inflamed; to fester; -- used literally and figuratively.
raffle
::A kind of lottery, in which several persons pay, in shares, the value of something put up as a stake, and then determine by chance (as by casting dice) which one of them shall become the sole possessor.
lottery
::A scheme for the distribution of prizes by lot or chance; esp., a gaming scheme in which one or more tickets bearing particular numbers draw prizes, and the rest of the tickets are blanks.
draw
::The act of drawing; draught.
lot
::That which happens without human design or forethought; chance; accident; hazard; fortune; fate.
random
::Going at random or by chance; done or made at hazard, or without settled direction, aim, or purpose; hazarded without previous calculation; left to chance; haphazard.
rancor
::The deepest malignity or spite; deep-seated enmity or malice; inveterate hatred.
rank
::Luxuriant in growth; of vigorous growth; exuberant; grown to immoderate height
rancid
::Having a rank smell or taste, from chemical change or decomposition; musty.
ransack
::The act of ransacking, or state of being ransacked; pillage.
rickety
::Affected with rickets.
ramshackle
::Loose; disjointed; falling to pieces; out of repair.
rampart
::That which fortifies and defends from assault; that which secures safety; a defense or bulwark.
rampant
::Ramping; leaping; springing; rearing upon the hind legs; hence, raging; furious.
ramp
::A leap; a spring; a hostile advance.
ramify
::To shoot, or divide, into branches or subdivisions, as the stem of a plant.
ramification
::The process of branching, or the development of branches or offshoots from a stem; also, the mode of their arrangement.
ramble
::A going or moving from place to place without any determinate business or object; an excursion or stroll merely for recreation.
rally
::The act or process of rallying (in any of the senses of that word).
rake
::An implement consisting of a headpiece having teeth, and a long handle at right angles to it, -- used for collecting hay, or other light things which are spread over a large surface, or for breaking and smoothing the earth.
rakish
::Dissolute; lewd; debauched.
raiment
::Clothing in general; vesture; garments; -- usually singular in form, with a collective sense.
rail
::An outer cloak or covering; a neckerchief for women.
tatter
::One who makes tatting.
ragamuffin
::A paltry or disreputable fellow; a mean wretch.
raconteur
::A relater; a storyteller.
rabid
::Furious; raging; extremely violent.
quotidian
::Occurring or returning daily.
quorum
::Such a number of the officers or members of any body as is competent by law or constitution to transact business
quizzical
::Relating to quizzing; given to quizzing; of the nature of a quiz; farcical; sportive.
quixotic
::Like Don Quixote; romantic to extravagance; prone to pursue unrealizable goals; absurdly chivalric; apt to be deluded.  See also quixotism.
leash
::A thong of leather, or a long cord, by which a person may hold or restrain an animal, such as a falconer holding his hawk, or a courser his dog. For dogs and cats, the leash is commonly attached to a collar around the neck of the animal.
quiver
::Nimble; active.
quisling
quirk
::A sudden turn; a starting from the point or line; hence, an artful evasion or subterfuge; a shift; a quibble.
taunt
::Very high or tall.
quip
::A smart, sarcastic turn or jest; a taunt; a severe retort; a gibe.
quintessence
::The fifth or last and highest essence or power in a natural body. See Ferment oils, under ferment.
quietude
::Rest; repose; quiet; tranquillity.
quiescent
::Being in a state of repose; at rest; still; not moving.
quibble
::A shift or turn from the point in question; a trifling or evasive distinction; an evasion; a cavil.
queue
::A tail-like appendage of hair; a pigtail.
query
::A question; an inquiry to be answered or solved.
whine
::A plaintive tone; the nasal, childish tone of mean complaint; mean or affected complaint.
querulous
::Given to quarreling; quarrelsome.
squelch
::A heavy fall, as of something flat.
quench
::To become extinguished; to go out; to become calm or cool.
quell
::Murder.
queasy
::Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea; inclined to vomit; qualmish.
quay
::A mole, bank, or wharf, formed toward the sea, or at the side of a harbor, river, or other navigable water, for convenience in loading and unloading vessels.
squash
::An American animal allied to the weasel.
quash
::Same as squash.
bank
::A mound, pile, or ridge of earth, raised above the surrounding level; hence, anything shaped like a mound or ridge of earth.
quarry
::Quadrate; square.
quarantine
::A space of forty days; -- used of Lent.
quandary
::A state of difficulty or perplexity; doubt; uncertainty.
qualms
qualified
::Fitted by accomplishments or endowments.
quaint
::Prudent; wise; hence, crafty; artful; wily.
quail
::Any gallinaceous bird belonging to Coturnix and several allied genera of the Old World, especially the common European quail (Coturnix communis), the rain quail (Coturnix Coromandelica) of India, the stubble quail (Coturnix pectoralis), and the Australian swamp quail (Synoicus australis).
bog
::A quagmire filled with decayed moss and other vegetable matter; wet spongy ground where a heavy body is apt to sink; a marsh; a morass.
quagmire
::Soft, wet, miry land, which shakes or yields under the feet.
quaff
::To drink largely or luxuriously.
quadruped
::Having four feet.
quack
::Pertaining to or characterized by, boasting and pretension; used by quacks; pretending to cure diseases
pyromaniac
gangrene
::A term formerly restricted to mortification of the soft tissues which has not advanced so far as to produce complete loss of vitality; but now applied to mortification of the soft parts in any stage.
putrescent
::Becoming putrid or rotten.
putrefy
::To become putrid; to decay offensively; to rot.
putrid
::Tending to decomposition or decay; decomposed; rotten; -- said of animal or vegetable matter. See putrefaction.
putative
::Commonly thought or deemed; supposed; reputed.
pusillanimous
::Destitute of a manly or courageous strength and firmness of mind; of weak spirit; mean-spirited; spiritless; cowardly; -- said of persons, .
purveyor
::One who provides victuals, or whose business is to make provision for the table; a victualer; a caterer.
pucker
::A fold; a wrinkle; a collection of folds.
purse
::A small bag or pouch, the opening of which is made to draw together closely, used to carry money in; by extension, any receptacle for money carried on the person; a wallet; a pocketbook; a portemonnaie.
rabble
::Of or pertaining to a rabble; like, or suited to, a rabble; disorderly; vulgar.
rooster
::The male of the domestic fowl; a cock.
purported
::Design or tendency; meaning; import; tenor.
purport
::Design or tendency; meaning; import; tenor.
purge
::The act of purging.
purgatory
::Tending to cleanse; cleansing; expiatory.
purchase
::The act of seeking, getting, or obtaining anything.
puny
::Imperfectly developed in size or vigor; small and feeble; inferior; petty.
pungent
::Causing a sharp sensation, as of the taste, smell, or feelings; pricking; biting; acrid.
protrude
::To shoot out or forth; to be thrust forward; to extend beyond a limit; to project.
protract
::Tedious continuance or delay.
prototype
::An original or model after which anything is copied; the pattern of anything to be engraved, or otherwise copied, cast, or the like; a primary form; exemplar; archetype.
protocol
::The original copy of any writing, as of a deed, treaty, dispatch, or other instrument.
protean
::Of or pertaining to Proteus; characteristic of Proteus.
prostrate
::Lying at length, or with the body extended on the ground or other surface; stretched out.
prosperous
::Tending to prosperity; favoring; favorable; helpful.
prosper
::To be successful; to succeed; to be fortunate or prosperous; to thrive; to make gain.
prosperity
::The state of being prosperous; advance or gain in anything good or desirable; successful progress in any business or enterprise; attainment of the object desired; good fortune; success
meter
::One who, or that which, metes or measures. See coal-meter.
metrical
::Of or pertaining to the meter; arranged in meter; consisting of verses.
prosody
::That part of grammar which treats of the quantity of syllables, of accent, and of the laws of versification or metrical composition.
proselytize
::To make converts or proselytes.
outlaw
::A person excluded from the benefit of the law, or deprived of its protection.
proscribe
::To doom to destruction; to put out of the protection of law; to outlaw; to exile.
proscenium
::The part where the actors performed; the stage.
prosaic
::Of or pertaining to prose; resembling prose; in the form of prose; unpoetical; writing or using prose.
propulsive
::Tending, or having power, to propel; driving on; urging.
usage
::The act of using; mode of using or treating; treatment; conduct with respect to a person or a thing.
propriety
::Individual right to hold property; ownership by personal title; property.
propound
::To offer for consideration; to exhibit; to propose
proponent
::Making proposals; proposing.
propitiate
::To make propitiation; to atone.
prophetic
::Containing, or pertaining to, prophecy; foretelling events; ; -- used with of before the thing foretold.
propensity
::The quality or state of being propense; natural inclination; disposition to do good or evil; bias; bent; tendency.
promulgate
::To make known by open declaration, as laws, decrees, or tidings; to publish.
prompt
::Ready and quick to act as occasion demands; meeting requirements readily; not slow, dilatory, or hesitating in decision or action; responding on the instant; immediate; ; -- said of persons.
promote
::To urge on or incite another, as to strife; also, to inform against a person.
promontory
promiscuous
::Consisting of individuals united in a body or mass without order; mingled; confused; undistinguished.
prominent
::Standing out, or projecting, beyond the line surface of something; jutting; protuberant; in high relief.
prolong
::To extend in space or length.
feud
::A combination of kindred to avenge injuries or affronts, done or offered to any of their blood, on the offender and all his race.
prologue
::The preface or introduction to a discourse, poem, or performance;  esp., a discourse or poem spoken before a dramatic performance.
prolixity
::The quality or state of being prolix; great length; minute detail.
prolific
::Having the quality of generating; producing young or fruit; generative; fruitful; productive; -- applied to plants producing fruit, animals producing young, etc.; -- usually with the implied idea of frequent or numerous production.
proletarian
::Of or pertaining to the proletaries; belonging to the commonalty; hence, mean; vile; vulgar.
projectile
::Projecting or impelling forward.
prognosticate
::To indicate as future; to foretell from signs or symptoms; to prophesy; to foreshow; to predict.
prognosis
::The act or art of foretelling the course and termination of a disease; also, the outlook afforded by this act of judgment.
progeny
::Descendants of the human kind, or offspring of other animals; children; offspring; race, lineage.
progenitor
::An ancestor in the direct line; a forefather.
profound
::Descending far below the surface; opening or reaching to a great depth; deep.
prodigy
::Something extraordinary, or out of the usual course of nature, from which omens are drawn; a portent.
prodigious
::Of the nature of a prodigy; marvelous; wonderful; portentous.
prod
::A pointed instrument for pricking or puncturing, as a goad, an awl, a skewer, etc.
procurement
::The act of procuring or obtaining; obtainment; attainment.
procrastinate
::To delay; to be dilatory.
proclivity
::Inclination; propensity; proneness; tendency.
problematic
::Having the nature of a problem; not shown in fact; questionable; uncertain; unsettled; doubtful.
defalcate
::To commit defalcation; to embezzle money held in trust.
probity
::Tried virtue or integrity; approved moral excellence; honesty; rectitude; uprightness.
probe
::An instrument for examining the depth or other circumstances of a wound, ulcer, or cavity, or the direction of a sinus, of for exploring for bullets, for stones in the bladder, etc.
privy
::Of or pertaining to some person exclusively; assigned to private uses; not public; private.
privation
::The act of depriving, or taking away; hence, the depriving of rank or office; degradation in rank; deprivation.
pristine
::Belonging to the earliest period or state; original; primitive; primeval
primp
::To be formal or affected in dress or manners; -- often with up.
primordial
::First in order; primary; original; of earliest origin.
prim
::Formal; precise; affectedly neat or nice
prevaricate
::To shift or turn from one side to the other, from the direct course, or from truth; to speak with equivocation; to shuffle; to quibble.
prevalent
::Gaining advantage or superiority; having superior force, influence, or efficacy; prevailing; predominant; successful; victorious.
pretext
::Ostensible reason or motive assigned or assumed as a color or cover for the real reason or motive; pretense; disguise.
preternatural
::Beyond of different from what is natural, or according to the regular course of things, but not clearly supernatural or miraculous; strange; inexplicable; extraordinary; uncommon; irregular; abnormal
pretentious
::Full of pretension; disposed to lay claim to more than is one's; presuming; assuming.
presumptuous
::Full of presumption; presuming; overconfident or venturesome; audacious; rash; taking liberties unduly; arrogant; insolent
prestige
::Delusion; illusion; trick.
presentiment
::Previous sentiment, conception, or opinion; previous apprehension; especially, an antecedent impression or conviction of something unpleasant, distressing, or calamitous, about to happen; anticipation of evil; foreboding.
presage
::Something which foreshows or portends a future event; a prognostic; an omen; an augury.
prerogative
::An exclusive or peculiar privilege; prior and indefeasible right; fundamental and essential possession; -- used generally of an official and hereditary right which may be asserted without question, and for the exercise of which there is no responsibility or accountability as to the fact and the manner of its exercise.
preponderance
::The quality or state of being preponderant; superiority or excess of weight, influence, or power, etc.; an outweighing.
premonitory
::Giving previous warning or notice.
premonition
::Previous warning, notice, or information; forewarning.
premise
::A proposition antecedently supposed or proved; something previously stated or assumed as the basis of further argument; a condition; a supposition.
prelude
::An introductory performance, preceding and preparing for the principal matter; a preliminary part, movement, strain, etc.; especially (Mus.), a strain introducing the theme or chief subject; a movement introductory to a fugue, yet independent; -- with recent composers often synonymous with overture.
prelate
::A clergyman of a superior order, as an archbishop or a bishop, having authority over the lower clergy; a dignitary of the church.
prehensile
::Adapted to seize or grasp; seizing; grasping.
prefatory
::Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a preface; introductory to a book, essay, or discourse.
preen
::A forked tool used by clothiers in dressing cloth.
preeminent
::Eminent above others; prominent among those who are eminent; superior in excellence; surpassing, or taking precedence of, others; rarely, surpassing others in evil, or in bad qualities.
predispose
::To dispose or incline beforehand; to give a predisposition or bias to.
predicament
::A class or kind described by any definite marks; hence, condition; particular situation or state; especially, an unfortunate or trying position or condition.
predetermine
::To determine beforehand.
predecessor
::One who precedes; one who has preceded another in any state, position, office, etc.; one whom another follows or comes after, in any office or position.
predator
precursor
::One who, or that which, precedes an event, and indicates its approach; a forerunner; a harbinger.
precise
::Having determinate limitations; exactly or sharply defined or stated; definite; exact; nice; not vague or equivocal.
precipitous
::Steep, like a precipice.
precipitate
::Overhasty; rash.
precipice
::A sudden or headlong fall.
precedent
::Going before; anterior; preceding; antecedent.
precarious
::Depending on the will or pleasure of another; held by courtesy; liable to be changed or lost at the pleasure of another.
prate
::Talk to little purpose; trifling talk; unmeaning loquacity.
prance
::To spring or bound, as a horse in high mettle.
pragmatist
::One who is pragmatic.
practical
::Of or pertaining to practice or action.
practicable
::That may be practiced or performed; capable of being done or accomplished with available means or resources; feasible
poultice
::A soft composition, as of bread, bran, or a mucilaginous substance, to be applied to sores, inflamed parts of the body, etc.; a cataplasm.
potpourri
::A ragout composed of different sorts of meats, vegetables, etc., cooked together.
potion
::A draught; a dose; usually, a draught or dose of a liquid medicine.
potentate
::One who is potent; one who possesses great power or sway; a prince, sovereign, or monarch.
potable
::Fit to be drunk; drinkable.
posture
::The position of the body; the situation or disposition of the several parts of the body with respect to each other, or for a particular purpose; especially (Fine Arts), the position of a figure with regard to the several principal members by which action is expressed; attitude.
postulate
::Postulated.
posterity
::The race that proceeds from a progenitor; offspring to the furthest generation; the aggregate number of persons who are descended from an ancestor of a generation; descendants; -- contrasted with ancestry.
pose
::A cold in the head; catarrh.
poseur
::A person who poses or attitudizes, esp. mentally.
stout
::Strong; lusty; vigorous; robust; sinewy; muscular; hence, firm; resolute; dauntless.
portly
::Having a dignified port or mien; of a noble appearance; imposing.
soothsayer
::One who foretells events by the art of soothsaying; a prognosticator.
portend
::To indicate (events, misfortunes, etc.) as in future; to foreshow; to foretoken; to bode; -- now used esp. of unpropitious signs.
interstice
::That which intervenes between one thing and another; especially, a space between things closely set, or between the parts which compose a body; a narrow chink; a crack; a crevice; a hole; an interval.
porous
::Full of pores; having interstices in the skin or in the substance of the body; having spiracles or passages for fluids; permeable by liquids
pore
::One of the minute orifices in an animal or vegetable membrane, for transpiration, absorption, etc.
pomposity
::The quality or state of being pompous; pompousness.
polyglot
::Containing, or made up, of, several languages.
polygamist
::One who practices polygamy, or maintains its lawfulness.
polity
::The form or constitution of the civil government of a nation or state; the framework or organization by which the various departments of government are combined into a systematic whole.
politic
::Of or pertaining to polity, or civil government; political. See under body.
polemical(polemic)
camp
::The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen, etc.
polar
::Of or pertaining to one of the poles of the earth, or of a sphere; situated near, or proceeding from, one of the poles
polarity
::That quality or condition of a body in virtue of which it exhibits opposite, or contrasted, properties or powers, in opposite, or contrasted, parts or directions; or a condition giving rise to a contrast of properties corresponding to a contrast of positions
polarize
::To communicate polarity to.
poignancy
::The quality or state of being poignant
pedestal
::The base or foot of a column, statue, vase, lamp, or the like; the part on which an upright work stands. It consists of three parts, the base, the die or dado, and the cornice or surbase molding. See Illust. of column.
podium
::A low wall, serving as a foundation, a substructure, or a terrace wall.
podiatrist
plummet
::A piece of lead attached to a line, used in sounding the depth of water.
plumber
::One who works in lead; esp., one who furnishes, fits, and repairs lead pipes.
plumage
::The entire clothing of a bird.
pluck
::The act of plucking; a pull; a twitch.
plight
::imp. & p. p. of plight, to pledge.
pliant
::Capable of plying or bending; readily yielding to force or pressure without breaking; flexible; pliable; lithe; limber; plastic. Also used figuratively: Easily influenced for good or evil; tractable.
pliable
::Capable of being plied, turned, or bent; easy to be bent; flexible; pliant; supple; limber; yielding.
plethora
::Overfullness; especially, excessive fullness of the blood vessels; repletion; that state of the blood vessels or of the system when the blood exceeds a healthy standard in quantity; hyperæmia; -- opposed to anæmia.
plenitude
::The quality or state of being full or complete; fullness; completeness; abundance.
plenary
::Full; entire; complete; absolute
referendum
::A diplomatic agent's note asking for instructions from his government concerning a particular matter or point.
plebiscite
::A vote by universal male suffrage; especially, in France, a popular vote, as first sanctioned by the National Constitution of 1791.
plebeian
::Of or pertaining to the Roman plebs, or common people.
plausible
::Worthy of being applauded; praiseworthy; commendable; ready.
plaudit
::A mark or expression of applause; praise bestowed.
platonic
::Of or pertaining to Plato, or his philosophy, school, or opinions.
commonwealth
::A state; a body politic consisting of a certain number of men, united, by compact or tacit agreement, under one form of government and system of laws.
commonplace
::Common; ordinary; trite.
platitude
::The quality or state of being flat, thin, or insipid; flat commonness; triteness; staleness of ideas of language.
plasticity
::The quality or state of being plastic.
plait
::A flat fold; a doubling, as of cloth; a pleat.
phenomena
self-righteous
::Righteous in one's own esteem; pharisaic.
pharisee
::One of a sect or party among the Jews, noted for a strict and formal observance of rites and ceremonies and of the traditions of the elders, and whose pretensions to superior sanctity led them to separate themselves from the other Jews.
pharisaical
phalanx
::A body of heavy-armed infantry formed in ranks and files close and deep. There were several different arrangements, the phalanx varying in depth from four to twenty-five or more ranks of men.
petulant
::Forward; pert; insolent; wanton.
mortar
::A strong vessel, commonly in form of an inverted bell, in which substances are pounded or rubbed with a pestle.
pestle
::An implement for pounding and breaking or braying substances in a mortar.
pestilential(pestilent)
wrongheaded
::Wrong in opinion or principle; having a perverse understanding; perverse.
perverse
::Turned aside; hence, specifically, turned away from the right; willfully erring; wicked; perverted.
peruse
::To observe; to examine with care.
perturb
::To disturb; to agitate; to vex; to trouble; to disquiet.
forward
::Near, or at the fore part; in advance of something else.
pert
::Open; evident; apert.
perspicuous
::Capable of being through; transparent; translucent; not opaque.
perspicacious
::Having the power of seeing clearly; quick-sighted; sharp of sight.
personable
::Having a well-formed body, or person; graceful; comely; of good appearance; presentable.
perpetual
::Neverceasing; continuing forever or for an unlimited time; unfailing; everlasting; continuous.
perpetrate
::To do or perform; to carry through; to execute, commonly in a bad sense; to commit (as a crime, an offense); to be guilty of.
pernicious
::Quick; swift (to burn).
permeable
::Capable of being permeated, or passed through; yielding passage; passable; penetrable; -- used especially of substances which allow the passage of fluids
periphery
::The outside or superficial portions of a body; the surface.
peripheral
::Of or pertaining to a periphery; constituting a periphery; peripheric.
peripatetic
::Walking about; itinerant.
bound
::imp. & p. p. of bind.
perigee
::That point, in the orbit of the moon or other body orbiting the earth, which is nearest to the earth; -- opposed to <ant>apogee</ant>. It is sometimes, but rarely, used of the nearest points of bodies not orbiting the earth, such as of a comet, a planet, etc. Called also epigee, epigeum.
perfunctory
::Done merely to get rid of a duty; performed mechanically and as a thing of rote; done in a careless and superficial manner; characterized by indifference.
perforate
::Pierced with a hole or holes, or with pores; having transparent dots resembling holes.
perfidious
::Guilty of perfidy; violating good faith or vows; false to trust or confidence reposed; teacherous; faithless.
perennial
::ing or continuing through the year.
peremptory
::Precluding debate or expostulation; not admitting of question or appeal; positive; absolute; decisive; conclusive; final.
doom
::Judgment; judicial sentence; penal decree; condemnation.
percussion
::The act of percussing, or striking one body against another; forcible collision, esp. such as gives a sound or report.
perceptive
::Of or pertaining to the act or power of perceiving; having the faculty or power of perceiving; used in perception.
peon
::See poon.
penumbra
::An incomplete or partial shadow.
pensive
::Thoughtful, sober, or sad; employed in serious reflection; given to, or favorable to, earnest or melancholy musing.
suspend
::To cease from operation or activity; esp., to stop payment, or be unable to meet obligations or engagements (said of a commercial firm or a bank).
pendulous
::Depending; pendent loosely; hanging; swinging.
pending
::Not yet decided; in continuance; in suspension.
pendant(pendent)
penchant
::Inclination; decided taste; bias.
penance
::Repentance.
pellucid
::Transparent; clear; limpid; translucent; not opaque.
pell-mell
::See pall-mall.
peerless
::Having no peer or equal; matchless; superlative.
pediatrician
bookish
::Given to reading; fond of study; better acquainted with books than with men; learned from books.
pedantic
::Of or pertaining to a pedant; characteristic of, or resembling, a pedant; ostentatious of learning
pedant
::A schoolmaster; a pedagogue.
pedagogy
::Pedagogics; pedagogism.
pedagogue
::A slave who led his master's children to school, and had the charge of them generally.
pecuniary
::Relating to money; monetary
peccadillo
::A slight trespass or offense; a petty crime; a trifling fault.
paucity
::Fewness; smallness of number; scarcity; rarity.
patrician
::Of or pertaining to the Roman patres (fathers) or senators, or patricians.
patina
::A dish or plate of metal or earthenware; a patella.
pathos
::That quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression; pathetic quality.
pathological
touching
::Affecting; moving; pathetic.
pathetic
::Expressing or showing anger; passionate.
pastoral
::Of or pertaining to shepherds; hence, relating to rural life and scenes.
pastiche
partition
::The act of parting or dividing; the state of being parted; separation; division; distribution.
parvenu
::An upstart; a man newly risen into notice.
parsimony
::Closeness or sparingness in the expenditure of money; -- generally in a bad sense; excessive frugality; niggardliness.
parquet
::A body of seats on the floor of a music hall or theater nearest the orchestra; but commonly applied to the whole lower floor of a theater, from the orchestra to the dress circle; the pit.
takeoff
::An imitation, especially in the way of caricature; -- used with of or on.
spoof
parody
::A writing in which the language or sentiment of an author is mimicked; especially, a kind of literary pleasantry, in which what is written on one subject is altered, and applied to another by way of burlesque; travesty.
parish
::Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial; ; maintained by the parish.
parley
::Mutual discourse or conversation; discussion; hence, an oral conference with an enemy, as with regard to a truce.
parched
::To become scorched or superficially burnt; to be very dry.
infest
::Mischievous; hurtful; harassing.
parasite
::One who frequents the tables of the rich, or who lives at another's expense, and earns his welcome by flattery; a hanger-on; a toady; a sycophant.
dowry
::A gift; endowment.
paraphernalia
::Something reserved to a wife, over and above her dower, being chiefly apparel and ornaments suited to her degree.
inamorata
::A woman in love; a mistress.
panoramic
::Of, pertaining to, or like, a panorama; exhibiting a very broad view.
pander
::A male bawd; a pimp; a procurer.
pandemic
::Affecting a whole people or a number of countries; everywhere epidemic.
panacea
::A remedy for all diseases; a universal medicine; a cure-all; catholicon; hence, a relief or solace for affliction.
palpitate
::To beat rapidly and more strongly than usual; to throb; to bound with emotion or exertion; to pulsate violently; to flutter; -- said specifically of the heart when its action is abnormal, as from excitement.
pallid
::Deficient in color; pale; wan
palliate
::Covered with a mantle; cloaked; hidden; disguised.
palette
::A thin, oval or square board, or tablet, with a thumb hole at one end for holding it, on which a painter lays and mixes his pigments. Hence, any other object, usually one with a flat surface, used for the same purpose.
palatial
::Of or pertaining to a palace; suitable for a palace; resembling a palace; royal; magnificent.
painstaking
::Careful in doing; diligent; faithful; attentive.
pacify
::To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; to quiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; to tranquillize
pacifist
::Adhering to pacifism; opposed to war; -- of people.
pachyderm
::Any of various nonruminant hoofed mammals having very thick skin, including the elephant, rhinoceros, and hippopotamus, one of the Pachydermata.
ovoid
::Resembling an egg in shape; egg-shaped; ovate.
overt
::Open to view; public; apparent; manifest. Opposite of <ant>hidden</ant>.
overbearing
::Overpowering; subduing; repressing.
outmoded
::same as old-fashioned, a., 3.
outlandish
::Foreign; not native.
blackball
::A composition for blacking shoes, boots, etc.; also, one for taking impressions of engraved work.
ostracize
::To exile by ostracism; to banish by a popular vote, as at Athens.
apparent
::Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to the eye; within sight or view.
orthography
::The art or practice of writing words with the proper letters, according to standard usage; conventionally correct spelling; also, mode of spelling.
pushy
officious
::Pertaining to, or being in accordance with, duty.
odyssey
::An epic poem attributed to Homer, which describes the return of Ulysses to Ithaca after the siege of Troy.
odorous
::Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor; fragrant; sweet-smelling.
occlude
::To shut up; to close.
Occident
obviate
::To meet in the way.
obtuse
::Not pointed or acute; blunt; -- applied esp. to angles greater than a right angle, or containing more than ninety degrees.
obtrude
::To thrust one's self upon a company or upon attention; to intrude.
obstreperous
::Attended by, or making, a loud and tumultuous noise; clamorous; noisy; vociferous.
obstinate
::Pertinaciously adhering to an opinion, purpose, or course; persistent; not yielding to reason, arguments, or other means; stubborn; pertinacious; -- usually implying unreasonableness.
obstetrician
::One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur; especially, a physician who specializes in obstetrics.
scion
obsessive
obsequy
::The last duty or service to a person, rendered after his death; hence, a rite or ceremony pertaining to burial; -- now used only in the plural.
slavish
::Of or pertaining to slaves; such as becomes or befits a slave; servile; excessively laborious
obnoxious
::Subject; liable; exposed; answerable; amenable; -- with to.
oblivious
::Promoting oblivion; causing forgetfulness.
oblivion
::The act of forgetting, or the state of being forgotten; cessation of remembrance; forgetfulness.
obliterate
::Scarcely distinct; -- applied to the markings of insects.
obligatory
::Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation; requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followed by on or upon.
obituary
::Of or pertaining to the death of a person or persons
obese
::Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy.
obelisk
::An upright, four-sided pillar, gradually tapering as it rises, and terminating in a pyramid called pyramidion. It is ordinarily monolithic. Egyptian obelisks are commonly covered with hieroglyphic writing from top to bottom.
obdurate
::Hardened in feelings, esp. against moral or mollifying influences; unyielding; hard-hearted; stubbornly wicked.
oaf
::Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies or goblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot.
nutrition
::In the broadest sense, a process or series of processes by which a living organism as a whole (or its component parts or organs) is maintained in its normal condition of life and growth.
nurture
::The act of nourishing or nursing; tender care; education; training.
numismatist
::One skilled in numismatics; a numismatologist.
nubile
::Of an age suitable for marriage; marriageable.
shade
::Comparative obscurity owing to interception or interruption of the rays of light; partial darkness caused by the intervention of something between the space contemplated and the source of light.
noxious
::Hurtful; harmful; baneful; pernicious; injurious; destructive; unwholesome; insalubrious; ; pernicious; corrupting to morals.
novelty
::The quality or state of being novel; newness; freshness; recentness of origin or introduction.
notable
::Capable of being noted; noticeable; plain; evident.
nostrum
::A medicine, the ingredients of which are kept secret for the purpose of restricting the profits of sale to the inventor or proprietor; a quack medicine.
nostalgia
::Homesickness; esp., a severe and sometimes fatal form of melancholia, due to homesickness.
nonplus
::A state or condition which baffles reason or confounds judgment; insuperable difficulty; inability to proceed or decide; puzzle; quandary.
nonentity
::Nonexistence; the negation of being.
noncommittal
::A state of not being committed or pledged; forbearance or refusal to commit one's self. Also used adjectively.
nonchalance
::Indifference; carelessness; coolness.
nominal
::Of or pertaining to a name or names; having to do with the literal meaning of a word; verbal.
nomadic
::Of or pertaining to nomads, or their way of life; wandering; moving from place to place for subsistence.
noisome
::Noxious to health; hurtful; mischievous; unwholesome; insalubrious; destructive.
nocturnal
::Of, pertaining to, done or occuring in, the night; ; -- opposed to <ant>diurnal</ant>.
impersonal
::Not personal; not representing a person; not having personality.
nirvana
::In the Buddhist system of religion, the final emancipation of the soul from transmigration, and consequently a beatific enfrachisement from the evils of worldly existence, as by annihilation or absorption into the divine. See Buddhism.
pinch
::A close compression, as with the ends of the fingers, or with an instrument; a nip.
snip
::A single cut, as with shears or scissors; a clip.
nip
::A sip or small draught; esp., a draught of intoxicating liquor; a dram.
niggle
::To trifle or play.
niggardly
::Meanly covetous or avaricious in dealing with others; stingy; niggard.
nicety
::The quality or state of being nice (in any of the senses of that word.).
nib
::A small and pointed thing or part; a point; a prong.
nettle
::A plant of the genus Urtica, covered with minute sharp hairs containing a poison that produces a stinging sensation. Urtica gracilis is common in the Northern, and Urtica chamædryoides in the Southern, United States. The common European species, Urtica urens and Urtica dioica, are also found in the Eastern united States. Urtica pilulifera is the Roman nettle of England.
favoritism
::The disposition to favor and promote the interest of one person or family, or of one class of men, to the neglect of others having equal claims; partiality.
nepotism
::Undue attachment to relations; favoritism shown to members of one's family; bestowal of patronage in consideration of relationship, rather than of merit or of legal claim.
negligible
::That may be neglected, disregarded, or left out of consideration; too small or unimportant to be worthy of notice.
negligence
::The quality or state of being negligent; lack of due diligence or care; omission of duty; habitual neglect; heedlessness.
nefarious
::Wicked in the extreme; abominable; iniquitous; atrociously villainous; execrable; detestably vile.
necromancy
::The art of revealing future events by means of a pretended communication with the dead; the black art; hence, magic in general; conjuration; enchantment. See black art.
nebula
::A faint, cloudlike, self-luminous mass of matter situated beyond the solar system among the stars. The term was originally applied to any diffuse luminous region. Now, technically, it is applied to interstellar clouds of dust and gases (diffuse nebula). However distant galaxies and very distant star clusters often appear like them in the telescope, such as the spiral nebula in Andromeda, known now to be a distant galaxy.
navigable
::Capable of being navigated; deep enough and wide enough to afford passage to vessels.
nautical
::Of or pertaining to seamen, to the art of navigation, or to ships.
nauseous
::Causing, or fitted to cause, nausea; sickening; loathsome; disgusting; exciting abhorrence.
nausea
::Seasickness; hence, any similar sickness of the stomach accompanied with a propensity to vomit; qualm; squeamishness of the stomach; loathing.
nauseate
::To become squeamish; to feel nausea; to turn away with disgust.
natty
::Neatly dressed; smart; trim; tidy; spruce.
natation
::The act of floating on the water; swimming.
nascent
::Commencing, or in process of development; beginning to exist or to grow; coming into being.
narrative
::Of or pertaining to narration; relating to the particulars of an event or transaction.
narcissist
::Someone in love with hisself or herself.
nadir
::That point of the heavens, or lower hemisphere, directly opposite the zenith; the inferior pole of the horizon; the point of the celestial sphere directly under the place where we stand.
myriad
::Consisting of a very great, but indefinite, number.
myopic
::Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia; nearsighted.
mutinous
::Disposed to mutiny; in a state of mutiny; characterized by mutiny; seditious; insubordinate.
mutilate
::Deprived of, or having lost, an important part; mutilated.
mute
::Not speaking; uttering no sound; silent.
muted
::same as quiet. Opposite of <ant>noisy</ant>.
mutablility
musty
::Having the rank, pungent, offensive odor and taste which substances of organic origin acquire during warm, moist weather; foul or sour and fetid; moldy
musky
::Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like.
muse
::A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset.
murky
::Dark; gloomy.
mural
::Of or pertaining to a wall; being on, or in, a wall; growing on, or against, a wall.
mundane
::Of or pertaining to the world; worldly, as contrasted with <contr>heavenly</contr>; earthly; terrestrial.
multiplicity
::The quality of being multiple, manifold, or various; a state of being many; a multitude.
multilingual
multiform
::Having many forms, shapes, or appearances.
multifarious
::Having multiplicity; having great diversity or variety; of various kinds; diversified; made up of many differing parts; manifold.
mulct
::A fine or penalty, esp. a pecuniary punishment or penalty.
muggy
::Moist; damp; moldy.
muddle
::A state of being turbid or confused; hence, intellectual cloudiness or dullness.
peddle
::To travel about with wares for sale; to go from place to place, or from house to house, for the purpose of retailing goods.
mountebank
::One who mounts a bench or stage in the market or other public place, boasts of his skill in curing diseases, and vends medicines which he pretends are infallible remedies; a quack doctor.
blemish
::Any mark of deformity or injury, whether physical or moral; anything that diminishes beauty, or renders imperfect that which is otherwise well formed; that which impairs reputation.
blotch
::A blot or spot, as of color or of ink; especially a large or irregular spot. Also Fig..
mottled
::Marked with spots of different colors; variegated; spotted.
motto
::A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldic achievment.
motley
::Variegated in color; consisting of different colors; dappled; party-colored.
motility
::Capability of motion; contractility.
motif
::Motive.
speck
::The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of the hippopotamus.
mote
::A meeting of persons for discussion.
mosaic
::Of or pertaining to the style of work called mosaic; formed by uniting pieces of different colors; variegated; tessellated; also, composed of various materials or ingredients.
mortify
::To lose vitality and organic structure, as flesh of a living body; to gangrene.
undertaker
::One who undertakes; one who engages in any project or business.
mortician
morose
::Of a sour temper; sullen and austere; ill-humored; severe.
moribund
::In a dying state; dying; at the point of death.
mores
::Customs; habits; esp., moral customs conformity to which is more or less obligatory; customary law.
mordant
::Biting; caustic; sarcastic; keen; severe.
morbid
::Not sound and healthful; induced by a diseased or abnormal condition; diseased; sickly
moodiness
::The quality or state of being moody; specifically, liability to strange or violent moods.
monotony
::A frequent recurrence of the same tone or sound, producing a dull uniformity; absence of variety, as in speaking or singing.
monotheism
::The doctrine or belief that there is but one God.
monograph
::A written account or description of a single thing, or class of things; a special treatise on a particular subject of limited range.
monogram
::A character or cipher composed of two or more letters interwoven or combined so as to represent a name, or a part of it (usually the initials). Monograms are often used on seals, ornamental pins, rings, buttons, and by painters, engravers, etc., to distinguish their works.
monochrome
::A painting or drawing in a single color; a picture made with a single color.
monochromatic
::Consisting of one color, or presenting rays of light of one color only.
monetary
::Of or pertaining to money, or consisting of money; pecuniary.
monastic
::Of or pertaining to monasteries, or to their occupants, rules, etc., .
monarchy
::A state or government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of a monarch.
momentum
::The quantity of motion in a moving body, being always proportioned to the quantity of matter multiplied by the velocity; impetus.
molten
::Melted; being in a state of fusion, esp. when the liquid state is produced by a high degree of heat.
mollycoddle
::a pampered darling; an effeminate man; a milksop.
mollify
::To soften; to make tender; to reduce the hardness, harshness, or asperity of; to qualify.
molecule
::One of the very small invisible particles of which all ordinary matter is supposed to consist.
mogul
::A person of the Mongolian race.
mode
::Manner of doing or being; method; form; fashion; custom; way; style
mock
::Imitating reality, but not real; false; counterfeit; assumed; sham.
mnemonic
::Assisting in memory; helping to remember.
mitigate
::To make less severe, intense, harsh, rigorous, painful, etc.; to soften; to meliorate; to alleviate; to diminish; to lessen
mite
::A minute arachnid, of the order Acarina, of which there are many species;  See acarina.
missive
::Specially sent; intended or prepared to be sent.
misogynist
::A woman hater. Contrast <contr>misandrist</contr>.
misogamy
::Hatred of marriage.
mishap
::Evil accident; ill luck; misfortune; mischance.
miserly
::Like a miser; very covetous; avaricious; stingy; sordid; niggardly.
misconduct
::Wrong conduct; bad behavior; mismanagement.
misdemeanor
::Ill behavior; evil conduct; fault.
miscreant
::Holding a false religious faith.
misconstrue
::To construe wrongly; to interpret erroneously.
metaphor
::The transference of the relation between one set of objects to another set for the purpose of brief explanation; a compressed simile; e. g., the ship plows the sea.
metamorphosis
::Change of form, or structure; transformation.
metallurgical
mesmerize
::To bring into a state of mesmeric sleep; to hypnotize.
merger
::One who, or that which, merges.
meretricious
::Of or pertaining to prostitutes; having to do with harlots; lustful.
quicksilver
::The metal mercury; -- so called from its resemblance to liquid silver.
mercurial
::Having the qualities fabled to belong to the god Mercury; swift; active; sprightly; fickle; volatile; changeable
mercenary
::Acting for reward; serving for pay; paid; hired; hireling; venal.
mercantile
::Of or pertaining to merchants, or the business of merchants; having to do with trade, or the buying and selling of commodities; commercial.
menial
::Belonging to a retinue or train of servants; performing servile office; serving.
alms
::Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity.
mendicant
::Practicing beggary; begging; living on alms.
mendacious
::Given to deception or falsehood; lying.
menagerie
::A place where animals are kept and trained.
memorialize
::To address or petition by a memorial; to present a memorial to.
melee
::A fight in which the combatants are mingled in one confused mass; a hand to hand conflict; an affray.
blue
::Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether lighter or darker.
suitor
::One who sues, petitions, or entreats; a petitioner; an applicant.
meek
::Mild of temper; not easily provoked or orritated; patient under injuries; not vain, or haughty, or resentful; forbearing; submissive.
medley
::Mixed; of mixed material or color.
meditation
::The act of meditating; close or continued thought; the turning or revolving of a subject in the mind; serious contemplation; reflection; musing.
intermediary
::Lying, coming, or done, between; intermediate.
mediate
::Being between the two extremes; middle; interposed; intervening; intermediate.
meddlesome
::Given to meddling; apt to interpose in the affairs of others; officiously intrusive.
meander
::A winding, crooked, or involved course.
mealymouthed
::Using soft words; not straightforward; plausible; affectedly or timidly delicate of speech; speaking deviously; unwilling to tell the truth in plain language. Opposite of <ant>frank</ant> or <ant>blunt</ant>.
meager
::Destitue of, or having little, flesh; lean.
maxim
::An established principle or proposition; a condensed proposition of important practical truth; an axiom of practical wisdom; an adage; a proverb; an aphorism.
mawkish
::Apt to cause satiety or loathing; nauseous; slightly nauseating; disgusting.
maverick
::In the southwestern part of the united States, a bullock or heifer that has not been branded, and is unclaimed or wild; -- said to be from Maverick, the name of a cattle owner in Texas who neglected to brand his cattle.
mauve
::A color of a delicate purple, violet, or lilac.
mausoleum
::A magnificent tomb, or stately sepulchral monument.
maul
::A heavy wooden hammer or beetle.
sentimental
::Having, expressing, or containing a sentiment or sentiments; abounding with moral reflections; containing a moral reflection; didactic.
maudlin
::Tearful; easily moved to tears; exciting to tears; excessively sentimental; weak and silly.
matrix
::The womb.
matriculate
::Matriculated.
matriarch
::The mother and ruler of a family or of her descendants; a ruler by maternal right.
maternal
::Of or pertaining to a mother; becoming to a mother; motherly
materialism
::The doctrine of materialists; materialistic views and tenets; called also philosophical materialism.
masticate
::To grind or crush with, or as with, the teeth and prepare for swallowing and digestion; to chew.
masochist
martyr
::One who, by his death, bears witness to the truth of the gospel; one who is put to death for his religion.
martinet
::In military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, one who lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, or to forms and fixed methods.
martial
::Of, pertaining to, or suited for, war; military
marsupial
::Having a pouch for carrying the immature young; of or pertaining to the Marsupialia.
enlist
::To enroll and bind one's self for military or naval service
marshal
::Originally, an officer who had the care of horses; a groom.
marred
::A small lake. See mere.
marked
::Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence; noticeable; conspicuous
maritime
::Bordering on, or situated near, the ocean; connected with the sea by site, interest, or power; having shipping and commerce or a navy.
marital
::Of or pertaining to a husband.
manumit
::To release from slavery; to liberate from personal bondage or servitude; to free, as a slave.
mannered
::Having a certain way, esp. a polite way, of carrying and conducting one's self.
manipulate
::To use the hands in dexterous operations; to do hand work
manifold
::Various in kind or quality; many in number; numerous; multiplied; complicated.
manifesto
::A public declaration, usually of a prince, sovereign, or other person claiming large powers, showing his intentions, or proclaiming his opinions and motives in reference to some act done or contemplated by him.
pronounced
::Strongly marked; unequivocal; decided. [A Gallicism]
manifestation
::The act of manifesting or disclosing, or the state of being manifested; discovery to the eye or to the understanding.
manifest
::Evident to the senses, esp. to the sight; apparent; distinctly perceived; hence, obvious to the understanding; apparent to the mind; easily apprehensible; plain; not obscure or hidden.
maniacal
::Affected with, or characterized by, madness; maniac.
mange
::The scab or itch in cattle, dogs, and other beasts.
mandate
::An official or authoritative command, order, or authorization from a superior official to a subordinate; an order or injunction; a commission; a judicial precept.
manacle
::A handcuff; a shackle for the hand or wrist; -- usually in the plural.
mammoth
::Resembling the mammoth in size; very large; gigantic.
nurse
::One who nourishes; a person who supplies food, tends, or brings up; as: (a) A woman who has the care of young children; especially, one who suckles an infant not her own. (b) A person, especially a woman, who has the care of the sick or infirm.
suckle
::A teat.
vertebrate
::Having a backbone, or vertebral column, containing the spinal marrow, as man, quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fishes.
mammal
::One of the Mammalia.
compost
::A mixture; a compound.
malodorous
::Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling.
malleable
::Capable of being extended or shaped by beating with a hammer, or by the pressure of rollers; -- applied to metals.
malingerer
::In the army, a soldier who feigns himself sick, or who induces or protracts an illness, in order to avoid doing his duty; hence, in general, one who shirks his duty by pretending illness or inability.
malignant
::Disposed to do harm, inflict suffering, or cause distress; actuated by extreme malevolence or enmity; virulently inimical; bent on evil; malicious.
malign
::Having an evil disposition toward others; harboring violent enmity; malevolent; malicious; spiteful; -- opposed to <ant>benign</ant>.
malicious
::Indulging or exercising malice; harboring ill will or enmity.
malfeasance
::The doing of an act which a person ought not to do; evil conduct; an illegal deed.
maleficient
::Doing evil, harm, or mischief.
malefactor
::An evil doer; one who commits a crime; one subject to public prosecution and punishment; a criminal.
malcontent
::discontented; uneasy; dissatisfied; especially, dissatisfied with the government.
malapropism
::A grotesque misuse of a word; a word so used.
malaise
::An indefinite feeling of uneasiness, or of being sick or ill at ease.
malady
::Any disease of the human body; a distemper, disorder, or indisposition, proceeding from impaired, defective, or morbid organic functions; especially, a lingering or deep-seated disorder.
maladroit
::Of a quality opposed to adroitness; clumsy; awkward; unskillful.
mangle
::A machine for smoothing linen or cotton cloth, as sheets, tablecloths, napkins, and clothing, by roller pressure, often with heated rollers.
maim
::The privation of the use of a limb or member of the body, by which one is rendered less able to defend himself or to annoy his adversary.
magnitude
::Extent of dimensions; size; -- applied to things that have length, breadth, and thickness.
magniloquent
::Speaking pompously; using swelling discourse; bombastic; tumid in style; grandiloquent.
magnate
::A person of rank; a noble or grandee; a person of influence or distinction in any sphere; -- used mostly of prominent business executives.
magistrate
::A person clothed with power as a public civil officer; a public civil officer invested with the executive government, or some branch of it.
magisterial
::Of or pertaining to a master or magistrate, or one in authority; having the manner of a magister; official; commanding; authoritative. Hence: Overbearing; dictatorial; dogmatic.
maelstrom
::A celebrated whirlpool on the coast of Norway.
madrigal
::A little amorous poem, sometimes called a pastoral poem, containing some tender and delicate, though simple, thought.
maculated
::Having spots or blotches; maculate.
machinations
Machiavellian
macerate
::To make lean; to cause to waste away.
mace
::A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also, a weight of 57.98 grains.
cremate
::To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, either directly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate.
morgue
::A place where the bodies of dead persons are kept, until they are identified, or claimed by their friends; a deadhouse.
macabre
::portraying human injury or death in a way so as to inspiring shock or horror; gruesome; ghastly.
lustrous
::Bright; shining; luminous.
slink
::Produced prematurely.
lurk
::To lie hidden; to lie in wait.
lurid
::Pale yellow; ghastly pale; wan; gloomy; dismal.
lunar
::Of or pertaining to the moon.
luminous
::Shining; emitting or reflecting light; brilliant; bright
dignitary
::One who possesses exalted rank or holds a position of dignity or honor; especially, one who holds an ecclesiastical rank above that of a parochial priest or clergyman.
lumen
lumber
::A pawnbroker's shop, or room for storing articles put in pawn; hence, a pledge, or pawn.
lull
::The power or quality of soothing; that which soothes; a lullaby.
lugubrious
::Mournful; indicating sorrow, often ridiculously or feignedly; doleful; woful; pitiable.
ludicrous
::Adapted to excite laughter, without scorn or contempt; sportive.
lucre
::Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an ill sense.
lucrative
::Yielding lucre; gainful; profitable; making increase of money or goods.
lucid
::Shining; bright; resplendent.
lubricate
::To make smooth or slippery.
low
::strong imp. of laugh.
lout
::A clownish, awkward fellow; a bumpkin.
loquacious
::Given to continual talking; talkative; garrulous.
lope
::A leap; a long step.
gallows
::A frame from which is suspended the rope with which criminals are executed by hanging, usually consisting of two upright posts and a crossbeam on the top; also, a like frame for suspending anything.
loom
::See loon, the bird.
longevity
::Long duration of life; length of life.
lounge
::An idle gait or stroll; the state of reclining indolently; a place of lounging.
loll
::To act lazily or indolently; to recline; to lean; to throw one's self down; to lie at ease.
loiter
::To be slow in moving; to delay; to linger; to be dilatory; to spend time idly; to saunter; to lag behind.
loft
::Lofty; proud.
lofty
::Lifted high up; having great height; towering; high.
lode
::A water course or way; a reach of water.
loath
::Hateful; odious; disliked.
understate
::To state or represent less strongly than may be done truthfully.
litotes
::A diminution or softening of statement for the sake of avoiding censure or increasing the effect by contrast with the moderation shown in the form of expression; a form of understatement.
litigation
::The act or process of litigating; a suit at law; a judicial contest.
willowy
::Abounding with willows.
lithe
::Mild; calm.
litany
::A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences. It is usually of a penitential character.
listless
::Having no desire or inclination; indifferent; heedless; spiritless.
list
::A line inclosing or forming the extremity of a piece of ground, or field of combat; hence, in the plural (lists), the ground or field inclosed for a race or combat.
liquidate
::To determine by agreement or by litigation the precise amount of (indebtedness); or, where there is an indebtedness to more than one person, to determine the precise amount of (each indebtedness); to make the amount of (an indebtedness) clear and certain.
linguistic
::Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or to the affinities of languages.
persist
::To stand firm; to be fixed and unmoved; to stay; to continue steadfastly; especially, to continue fixed in a course of conduct against opposing motives; to persevere; -- sometimes conveying an unfavorable notion, as of doggedness or obstinacy.
linger
::To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in suspense; to hesitate.
feature
::The make, form, or outward appearance of a person; the whole turn or style of the body; esp., good appearance.
lineaments
limpid
::Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear.
limn
::To draw or paint; especially, to represent in an artistic way with pencil or brush.
abide
::To wait; to pause; to delay.
abode
::pret. of abide.
limbo
::An spiritual region where certain classes of souls were supposed to await the last judgment.
limber
::Easily bent; flexible; pliant; yielding.
ligneous
::Made of wood; consisting of wood; of the nature of, or resembling, wood; woody.
lien
::p. p. of lie. See lain.
license
::Authority or liberty given to do or forbear any act; especially, a formal permission from the proper authorities to perform certain acts or to carry on a certain business, which without such permission would be illegal; a grant of permission.
libretto
::A book containing the words of an opera or extended piece of music.
libido
::Sexual desire; the sexual instinct; the sex drive.
libidinous
::Having lustful desires; characterized by lewdness; sensual; lascivious.
libertine
::Free from restraint; uncontrolled.
libel
::A brief writing of any kind, esp. a declaration, bill, certificate, request, supplication, etc.
liaison
::A union, or bond of union; an intimacy; an interrelationship.
lexicographer
::The author or compiler of a lexicon or dictionary.
layman
::One of the people, in distinction from the clergy; one of the laity; sometimes, a man not belonging to some particular profession, in distinction from those who do.
lagoon
::A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which the sea flows.
straggle
::The act of straggling.
lag
::Coming tardily after or behind; slow; tardy.
laconic
::Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or Spartans; brief and pithy; concise; brusque; epigrammatic. In this sense laconic is the usual form.
halfhearted
::Wanting in heart or spirit; ungenerous; unkind.
lackadaisical
::Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental; dreamy.
lachrymose
::Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffused with tears; tearful.
rag
::A piece of cloth torn off; a tattered piece of cloth; a shred; a tatter; a fragment.
rip
::A wicker fish basket.
labyrinth
::An edifice or place full of intricate passageways which render it difficult to find the way from the interior to the entrance.
laborious
::Requiring labor, perseverance, or sacrifices; toilsome; tiresome.
labile
::Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize.
entourage
::Surroundings; specif., collectively, one's attendants or associates.
kudos
::Glory; fame; renown; praise.
knotty
::Full of knots; knotted; having many knots
crochet
::A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, with worsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively.
curfew
::The ringing of an evening bell, originally a signal to the inhabitants to cover fires, extinguish lights, and retire to rest, -- instituted by William the Conqueror; also, the bell itself.
toll
::The sound of a bell produced by strokes slowly and uniformly repeated.
knead
::To perform movements like kneading, with the paws; -- said of cats, which may knead{3} a master's body when stroked, presumably a sign of contentment.
knave
::A boy; especially, a boy servant.
kleptomaniac
::A person affected with kleptomania.
kismet
::Destiny; fate.
kinetic
::Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent.
kindred
::Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties
killjoy
::One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person; a spoilsport.
ken
::A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves.
kaleidoscope
::An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which contains loose fragments of colored glass, etc., and reflecting surfaces so arranged that changes of position exhibit its contents in an endless variety of beautiful colors and symmetrical forms. It has been much employed in arts of design.
juxtapose
::To place in juxtaposition.
juridical
jurisdiction
::The legal power, right, or authority of a particular court to hear and determine causes, to try criminals, or to execute justice; judicial authority over a cause or class of causes.
jurisprudence
::The science of juridical law; the knowledge of the laws, customs, and rights of men in a state or community, necessary for the due administration of justice.
juncture
::A joining; a union; an alliance.
jug
::A vessel, usually of coarse earthenware, with a swelling belly and narrow mouth, and having a handle on one side.
juggernaut
::One of the names under which Vishnu, in his incarnation as Krishna, is worshiped by the Hindus. See also jagannath.
jovial
::Of or pertaining to the god, or the planet, Jupiter.
bump
::A thump; a heavy blow.
shove
::p. p. of shove.
jostle
::A conflict by collisions; a crowding or bumping together; interference.
jollity
::Noisy mirth; gayety; merriment; festivity; boisterous enjoyment.
jocund
::Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive.
jest
::A deed; an action; a gest.
jocose
::Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in jokes; merry; sportive; humorous.
jingoist
::One who is jingoistic; a bellicose patriot; an extreme bellicose nationalist; an aggressive chauvinist.
jibe
::To change a ship's course so as to cause a shifting of the boom. See jibe, v. t., and gybe.
jeopardize
::To expose to loss or injury; to risk.
jaunty
::Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner.
jaundice
::A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes, skin, and urine, whiteness of the fæces, constipation, uneasiness in the region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor and lassitude. It is caused usually by obstruction of the biliary passages and consequent damming up, in the liver, of the bile, which is then absorbed into the blood.
jaundiced
::Affected with jaundice.
jargon
::Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish.
jaded
::dulled by surfeit.
jab
::A thrust or stab.
itinerary
::Itinerant; traveling; passing from place to place; done on a journey.
itinerant
::Passing or traveling about a country; going or preaching on a circuit; wandering; not settled
isthmus
::A neck or narrow slip of land by which two continents are connected, or by which a peninsula is united to the mainland
isotope
irrevocable
::Incapable of being recalled or revoked; unchangeable; irreversible; unalterable
irreverence
::The state or quality of being irreverent; lack of proper reverence; disregard of the authority and character of a superior.
irretrievable
::Not retrievable; irrecoverable; irreparable.
indecision
::Lack of decision; lack of settled purpose, or of firmness; indetermination; wavering of mind; irresolution; vacillation; hesitation.
irresolute
::Not resolute; not decided or determined; wavering; given to doubt or irresolution.
irreparable
::Not reparable; not capable of being repaired, recovered, regained, or remedied; irretrievable; irremediable
irrelevant
irreconcilable
::Not reconcilable; not able to be reconciled or brought into accord; implacable; incompatible; inconsistent; disagreeing.
irksome
::Wearisome; tedious; disagreeable or troublesome by reason of long continuance or repetition
iridescent
::Having colors like the rainbow; exhibiting a play of changeable colors; nacreous; prismatic. See iridescence.
iota
::The ninth letter of the Greek alphabet (ι) corresponding with the English i.
invulnerable
::Incapable of being wounded, or of receiving injury.
invoke
::To call on for aid or protection; to invite earnestly or solemnly; to summon; to address in prayer; to solicit or demand by invocation; to implore.
invocation
::The act or form of calling for the assistance or presence of some superior being; earnest and solemn entreaty; esp., prayer offered to a divine being.
inviolable
::Not violable; not susceptible of hurt, wound, or harm (used with respect to either physical or moral damage); not susceptible of being profaned or corrupted; sacred; holy
invidious
::Envious; malignant.
invert
::Subjected to the process of inversion; inverted; converted.
inverse
::Opposite in order, relation, or effect; reversed; inverted; reciprocal; -- opposed to <contr>direct</contr>.
inveigle
::To lead astray as if blind; to persuade to something evil by deceptive arts or flattery; to entice; to insnare; to seduce; to wheedle.
invalidate
::To render invalid; to weaken or lessen the force of; to destroy the authority of; to render of no force or effect; to overthrow.
inured
::To pass into use; to take or have effect; to be applied; to serve to the use or benefit of.
engulf
::To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf.
submerge
::To plunge into water or other fluid; to be buried or covered, as by a fluid; to be merged; hence, to be completely included.
intuition
::A looking after; a regard to.
intrude
::To thrust one's self in; to come or go in without invitation, permission, or welcome; to encroach; to trespass
introvert
::A person who is introverted; one concerned predominantly with himself or his own feelings. Contrasted with <contr>extrovert</contr>.
intrinsic
::Inward; internal; hence, true; genuine; real; essential; inherent; not merely apparent or accidental; -- opposed to <ant>extrinsic</ant>
intrepid
::Not trembling or shaking with fear; fearless; bold; brave; undaunted; courageous
intransigence
intractable
::Not tractable; not easily governed, managed, or directed; indisposed to be taught, disciplined, or tamed; violent; stubborn; obstinate; refractory.
intimate
::Innermost; inward; internal; deep-seated; hearty.
intervene
::A coming between; intervention; meeting.
interrogate
::An interrogation; a question.
interregnum
::The time during which a throne is vacant between the death or abdication of a sovereign and the accession of his successor.
interpolate
::To renew; to carry on with intermission.
internecine
::Involving, or accompanied by, mutual slaughter; mutually destructive.
intermittent
::Coming and going at intervals; alternating; recurrent; periodic.
interminable
::Without termination; admitting no limit; boundless; endless; wearisomely protracted.
interloper
::One who interlopes; one who unlawfully intrudes upon a property, a station, or an office; one who interferes wrongfully or officiously.
interim
::The meantime; time intervening; interval between events, etc.
cemetery
::A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a graveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.
intelligentsia
::an educated and intellectual{2} elite; intellectuals, collectively or considered as a class.
intellect
::The part or faculty of the human mind by which it knows, as distinguished from the power to feel and to will; the power to judge and comprehend; the thinking faculty; the understanding.
upright
::In an erect position or posture; perpendicular; vertical, or nearly vertical; pointing upward.
integrity
::The state or quality of being entire or complete; wholeness; entireness; unbroken state.
integral
::Lacking nothing of completeness; complete; perfect; uninjured; whole; entire.
intangible
::Not tangible; incapable of being touched; not perceptible to the touch; impalpable; imperceptible.
insurrection
::A rising against civil or political authority, or the established government; open and active opposition to the execution of law in a city or state.
odds
::Difference in favor of one and against another; excess of one of two things or numbers over the other; inequality; advantage; superiority; hence, excess of chances; probability. The odds are often expressed by a ratio
insubstantial
::Unsubstantial; not real or strong.
insubordination
::The quality of being insubordinate; disobedience to lawful authority.
insouciant
::Careless; heedless; indifferent; unconcerned.
insolvent
::Not solvent; not having sufficient estate to pay one's debts; unable to pay one's debts as they fall due, in the ordinary course of trade and business.
insipid
::Wanting in the qualities which affect the organs of taste; without taste or savor; vapid; tasteless.
artful
::Performed with, or characterized by, art or skill.
creep
::The act or process of creeping.
insinuate
::To creep, wind, or flow in; to enter gently, slowly, or imperceptibly, as into crevices.
insightful
::having intellectual depth; having or showing an exceptional degree of insight{2}; -- of people or their comments.
insidious
::Lying in wait; watching an opportunity to insnare or entrap; deceitful; sly; treacherous; -- said of persons.
insensible
::Destitute of the power of feeling or perceiving; wanting bodily sensibility; unconscious.
insensate
::Wanting sensibility; destitute of sense; stupid; foolish.
inscrutable
::Unsearchable; incapable of being searched into and understood by inquiry or study; impossible or difficult to be explained or accounted for satisfactorily; obscure; incomprehensible.
insatiable
::Not satiable; incapable of being satisfied or appeased; very greedy.
wholesome
::Tending to promote health; favoring health; salubrious; salutary.
healthy
::Being in a state of health; enjoying health; hale; sound; free from disease
insalubrious
::Not salubrious or healthful; unwholesome.
inquisitive
::Disposed to ask questions, especially in matters which do not concern the inquirer.
inquisitor
::An inquisitive person; one fond of asking questions.
inordinate
::Not limited to rules prescribed, or to usual bounds; irregular; excessive; immoderate.
inopportune
::Not opportune; inconvenient; unseasonable
innuendo
::An oblique hint; a remote allusion or reference, usually derogatory to a person or thing not named; an insinuation.
innovation
::The act of innovating; introduction of something new, in customs, rites, commercial products, etc.
innocuous
::Harmless; producing no ill effect.
innate
::Inborn; native; natural
inkling
::A hint; an intimation.
injurious
::Not just; wrongful; iniquitous; culpable.
initiate
::Unpracticed; untried; new.
inimical
::Having the disposition or temper of an enemy; unfriendly; unfavorable; -- chiefly applied to private, as hostile is to public, enmity.
inhibit
::To check; to hold back; to restrain; to hinder.
inherent
::Permanently existing in something; inseparably attached or connected; naturally pertaining to; innate; inalienable
ingratiate
::To gain favor.
ingrate
::Ingrateful.
ingrained
::Dyed with grain, or kermes.
ingenue
::An ingenuous or naïve girl or young woman, or an actress representing such a person.
ingenuous
::Of honorable extraction; freeborn; noble.
resourceful
::Full of resources.
indiscriminate
::Not discriminate; wanting discrimination; undistinguishing; not making any distinction; confused; promiscuous.
indignity
::Any action toward another which manifests contempt for him; an offense against personal dignity; unmerited contemptuous treatment; contumely; incivility or injury, accompanied with insult.
rightful
::Righteous; upright; just; good; -- said of persons.
indignation
::The feeling excited by that which is unworthy, base, or disgraceful; anger mingled with contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.
indigenous
::Native; produced, growing, or living, naturally in a country or climate; not exotic; not imported.
indifferent
::Not making a difference; having no influence or preponderating weight; involving no preference, concern, or attention; of no account; without significance or importance.
indict
::To write; to compose; to dictate; to indite.
indices
::See index.
indicative
::Pointing out; bringing to notice; giving intimation or knowledge of something not visible or obvious.
indenture
::The act of indenting, or state of being indented.
indentation
::The act of indenting or state of being indented.
indemnify
::To save harmless; to secure against loss or damage; to insure.
indelible
::That can not be removed, washed away, blotted out, or effaced; incapable of being canceled, lost, or forgotten
indefatigable
::Incapable of being fatigued; not readily exhausted; unremitting in labor or effort; untiring; unwearying; not yielding to fatigue.
incursion
::A running into; hence, an entering into a territory with hostile intention; a temporary invasion; a predatory or harassing inroad; a raid.
incur
::To pass; to enter.
incumbent
::Lying; resting; reclining; recumbent; superimposed; superincumbent.
inculcate
::To teach and impress by frequent repetitions or admonitions; to urge on the mind.
incubus
::A demon; a fiend; a lascivious spirit, supposed to have sexual intercourse with women by night.
inasmuch_as
incubate
::To sit, as on eggs for hatching; to brood; to brood upon, or keep warm, as eggs, for the purpose of hatching.
incrustation
::The act of incrusting, or the state of being incrusted.
incredulous
::Not credulous; indisposed to admit or accept that which is related as true, skeptical; unbelieving.
incredulity
::The state or quality of being incredulous; a withholding or refusal of belief; skepticism; unbelief; disbelief.
incorrigible
::Not corrigible; incapable of being corrected or amended; bad beyond correction; irreclaimable.
incontrovertible
::Not controvertible; too clear or certain to admit of dispute; indisputable.
incontinent
::Not continent; uncontrolled; not restraining the passions or appetites, particularly the sexual appetite; indulging unlawful lust; unchaste; lewd.
inconsistency
::The quality or state of being inconsistent; discordance in respect to sentiment or action; such contrariety between two things that both can not exist or be true together; disagreement; incompatibility.
inconsequential
::Not regularly following from the premises; hence, irrelevant; unimportant; of no consequence.
attire
::Dress; clothes; headdress; anything which dresses or adorns; esp., ornamental clothing.
incongruity
::The quality or state of being incongruous; lack of congruity; unsuitableness; inconsistency; impropriety.
incommodious
::Tending to incommode; not commodious; not affording ease or advantage; unsuitable; giving trouble; inconvenient; annoying
incognito
::Without being known; in disguise; in an assumed character, or under an assumed title; -- said esp. of great personages who sometimes adopt a disguise or an assumed character in order to avoid notice.
inclusive
::Inclosing; encircling; surrounding.
tend
::To wait, as attendants or servants; to serve; to attend; -- with on or upon.
inclined
::Having a leaning or tendency towards, or away from, a thing; disposed or moved by wish, desire, or judgment.
incline
::An inclined plane; an ascent or descent; a grade or gradient; a slope.
inclement
::Not clement; destitute of a mild and kind temper; void of tenderness; unmerciful; severe; harsh.
incisive
::Having the quality of incising, cutting, or penetrating, as with a sharp instrument; cutting
incipient
::Beginning to be, or to show itself; commencing; initial
incinerate
::Reduced to ashes by burning; thoroughly consumed by fire.
incident
::Falling or striking upon, as a ray of light upon a reflecting surface.
incidental
::Happening, as an occasional event, without regularity; coming without design; casual; accidental; hence, not of prime concern; subordinate; collateral
incidence
incessant
::Continuing or following without interruption; unceasing; unitermitted; uninterrupted; continual
inception
::Beginning; commencement; initiation.
incentive
::Inciting; encouraging or moving; rousing to action; stimulative.
personify
::To regard, treat, or represent as a person; to represent as a rational being.
incarnation
::The act of clothing with flesh, or the state of being so clothed; the act of taking, or being manifested in, a human body and nature.
incarnate
::Not in the flesh; spiritual.
incapacitate
::To deprive of capacity or natural power; to disable; to render incapable or unfit; to disqualify.
recital
::The act of reciting; the repetition of the words of another, or of a document; rehearsal.
recite
::A recital.
bewitch
::To gain an ascendency over by charms or incantations; to affect (esp. to injure) by witchcraft or sorcery.
charm
::A melody; a song.
chant
::Song; melody.
incantation
::The act or process of using formulas sung or spoken, with occult ceremonies, for the purpose of raising spirits, producing enchantment, or affecting other magical results; enchantment.
incandescent
::White, glowing, or luminous, with intense heat; ; hence, clear; shining; brilliant.
inaugurate
::Invested with office; inaugurated.
speechless
::Destitute or deprived of the faculty of speech.
inarticulate
::Not uttered with articulation or intelligible distinctness, as speech or words.
inane
::Without contents; empty; void of sense or intelligence; purposeless; pointless; characterless; useless.
inalienable
::Incapable of being alienated, surrendered, or transferred to another; not alienable.
oversee
::To see too or too much; hence, to be deceived.
impunity
::Exemption or freedom from punishment, harm, or loss.
impugn
::To attack by words or arguments; to contradict; to assail; to call in question; to make insinuations against; to gainsay; to oppose.
impudence
::The quality of being impudent; assurance, accompanied with a disregard of the presence or opinions of others; shamelessness; forwardness; lack of modesty.
imprudent
::Not prudent; wanting in prudence or discretion; indiscreet; injudicious; not attentive to consequence; improper.
improvise
::To produce or render extemporaneous compositions, especially in verse or in music, without previous preparation; hence, to do anything offhand.
impropriety
::The quality of being improper; unfitness or unsuitableness to character, time place, or circumstances.
impregnate
::Impregnated; made prolific.
impregnable
::Not to be stormed, or taken by assault; incapable of being subdued; able to resist attack; unconquerable
crave
::To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing.
masquerade
::An assembly of persons wearing masks, and amusing themselves with dancing, conversation, or other diversions.
imposture
::The act or conduct of an impostor; deception practiced under a false or assumed character; fraud or imposition; cheating.
importune
::Inopportune; unseasonable.
importunate
::Troublesomely urgent; unreasonably solicitous; overpressing in request or demand; urgent; teasing.
significant
::Fitted or designed to signify or make known somethingl having a meaning; standing as a sign or token; expressive or suggestive.
import
::Merchandise imported, or brought into a country from without its boundaries; -- generally in the plural, opposed to exports.
impolitic
::Not politic; contrary to, or wanting in, policy; unwise; imprudent; indiscreet; inexpedient.
implore
::Imploration.
implicit
::Infolded; entangled; complicated; involved.
implication
::The act of implicating, or the state of being implicated.
implicate
::To infold; to fold together; to interweave.
implement
::That which fulfills or supplies a want or use; esp., an instrument, tool, or utensil, as supplying a requisite to an end.
implausible
::Not plausible; not wearing the appearance of truth or credibility, and not likely to be believed.
impious
::Not pious; wanting piety; irreligious; irreverent; ungodly; profane; wanting in reverence for the Supreme Being
impinge
::To fall or dash against; to touch upon; to strike; to hit; to clash with; -- with on or upon.
impiety
::The quality of being impious; lack of piety; irreverence toward the Supreme Being; ungodliness; wickedness.
impetus
::A property possessed by a moving body in virtue of its weight and its motion; the force with which any body is driven or impelled; momentum.
impetuous
::Rushing with force and violence; moving with impetus; furious; forcible; violent
impervious
::Not pervious; not admitting of entrance or passage through.
collected
::Gathered together.
imperturbable
::Incapable of being disturbed or disconcerted.
imperil
::To bring into peril; to endanger.
imperial
::Of or pertaining to an empire, or to an emperor
imperative
::Expressive of command; containing positive command; authoritatively or absolutely directive; commanding; authoritative.
impenitent
::Not penitent; not repenting of sin; not contrite; of a hard heart.
impending
::Hanging over; overhanging; suspended so as to menace; imminet; threatening.
impel
::To drive or urge forward or on; to press on; to incite to action or motion in any way.
impediment
::That which impedes or hinders progress, motion, activity, or effect.
retard
::Retardation; delay.
credential
::Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting.
impeccable
::Not liable to sin; exempt from the possibility of doing wrong.
impeach
::Hindrance; impeachment.
impasse
::An impassable road or way; a blind alley; cul-de-sac; fig., a position or predicament affording no escape.
impassable
::Incapable of being passed; not admitting a passage.
impart
::To give a part or share.
impartial
::Not partial; not favoring one more than another; treating all alike; unprejudiced; unbiased; disinterested; equitable; fair; just.
impalpable
::Not palpable; that cannot be felt; extremely fine, so that no grit can be perceived by touch.
impair
::Not fit or appropriate.
immutable
::Not mutable; not capable or susceptible of change; unchangeable; unalterable.
immure
::A wall; an inclosure.
immune
::Exempt; protected.
immolate
::To sacrifice; to offer in sacrifice; to kill, as a sacrificial victim.
immobility
::The condition or quality of being immobile; fixedness in place or state.
imminent
::Threatening to occur immediately; near at hand; impending; -- said especially of misfortune or peril.
tenancy
::A holding, or a mode of holding, an estate; tenure; the temporary possession of what belongs to another.
tenant
::One who holds or possesses lands, or other real estate, by any kind of right, whether in fee simple, in common, in severalty, for life, for years, or at will; also, one who has the occupation or temporary possession of lands or tenements the title of which is in another; -- correlative to landlord. See Citation from Blackstone, under tenement, 2.
immaculate
::Without stain or blemish; spotless; undefiled; clear; pure.
imbue
::To tinge deeply; to dye; to cause to absorb.
imbecility
::The quality of being imbecile; weakness; feebleness, esp. of mind.
disproportion
::Want of proportion in form or quantity; lack of symmetry
illusory
::Deceiving, or tending of deceive; fallacious; illusive.
illuminate
::Enlightened.
illicit
::Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful
ignominy
::Public disgrace or dishonor; reproach; infamy.
ignite
::To take fire; to begin to burn.
igneous
::Pertaining to, having the nature of, fire; containing fire; resembling fire.
idyll(idyl)
idolatry
::The worship of idols, images, or anything which is not God; the worship of false gods.
idiosyncrasy
::A peculiarity of physical or mental constitution or temperament; a characteristic belonging to, and distinguishing, an individual; characteristic susceptibility; idiocrasy; eccentricity.
ideology
::The science of ideas.
iconoclastic
::Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking.
ichthyology
::The natural history of fishes; that branch of zoölogy which relates to fishes, including their structure, classification, and habits.
hypothetical
hypocritical
::Of or pertaining to a hypocrite, or to hypocrisy
hypercritical
::Over critical; unreasonably or unjustly critical; carping; captious.
hyperbole
::A figure of speech in which the expression is an evident exaggeration of the meaning intended to be conveyed, or by which things are represented as much greater or less, better or worse, than they really are; a statement exaggerated fancifully, through excitement, or for effect.
hygiene
::That department of sanitary science which treats of the preservation of health, esp. of households and communities; a system of principles or rules designated for the promotion of health.
rabies
::Same as hydrophobia (b); canine madness.
pedigree
::A line of ancestors; descent; lineage; genealogy; a register or record of a line of ancestors.
mongrel
::Not of a pure breed.
hirsute
::Rough with hair; set with bristles; shaggy.
hireling
::Serving for hire or wages; venal; mercenary.
hinterlands
hindrance
::The act of hindering, or the state of being hindered.
hindmost
hieroglyphic
::Emblematic; expressive of some meaning by characters, pictures, or figures
totem
::A rude picture, as of a bird, beast, or the like, used by the North American Indians as a symbolic designation, as of a family or a clan; also, the object or animal itself, considered as an symbol of the family.
hibernate
::To winter; to pass the season of winter in close quarters, in a torpid or lethargic state, as certain mammals, reptiles, and insects.
hibernal
::Belonging or relating to winter; wintry; winterish.
primate
::The chief ecclesiastic in a national church; one who presides over other bishops in a province; an archbishop.
primal
::First; primary; original; chief.
primary
::First in order of time or development or in intention; primitive; fundamental; original.
heyday
::The time of triumph and exultation; hence, joy, high spirits, frolicsomeness; wildness.
hew
::Destruction by cutting down.
heterogeneous
::Differing in kind; having unlike qualities; possessed of different characteristics; dissimilar; -- opposed to homogeneous, and said of two or more connected objects, or of a conglomerate mass, considered in respect to the parts of which it is made up.
herpetologist
::One versed in herpetology, or the natural history of reptiles.
sterile
::Producing little or no crop; barren; unfruitful; unproductive; not fertile.
heresy
::An opinion held in opposition to the established or commonly received doctrine, and tending to promote a division or party, as in politics, literature, philosophy, etc.; -- usually, but not necessarily, said in reproach.
herbivorous
::Eating plants; of or pertaining to the Herbivora.
heinous
::Hateful; hatefully bad; flagrant; odious; atrocious; giving great offense; -- applied to deeds or to character.
hegemony
::Leadership; preponderant influence or authority; -- usually applied to the relation of a government or state to its neighbors or confederates.
heed
::Attention; notice; observation; regard; -- often with give or take.
heedless
::Without heed or care; inattentive; careless; thoughtless; unobservant.
heckler
headstrong
::Not easily restrained; ungovernable; obstinate; stubborn.
headfirst
::With the head foremost; -- of motion.
headlong
::Rash; precipitate.
hazy
::Thick with haze; somewhat obscured with haze; not clear or transparent.
hazardous
::Exposed to hazard; dangerous; risky.
havoc
::Wide and general destruction; devastation; waste.
haunt
::A place to which one frequently resorts
notch
::A hollow cut in anything; a nick; an indentation.
latch
::That which fastens or holds; a lace; a snare.
hatch
::The act of hatching.
harry
::To make a predatory incursion; to plunder or lay waste.
hardy
::Bold; brave; stout; daring; resolute; intrepid.
harbor
::A station for rest and entertainment; a place of security and comfort; a refuge; a shelter.
harangue
::A speech addressed to a large public assembly; a popular oration; a loud address to a multitude; in a bad sense, a noisy or pompous speech; declamation; ranting.
hapless
::Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy
haphazard
::Determined by chance, whimsy, or guesswork; unplanned; aimless; random; -- used mostly of human actions.
hap
::A cloak or plaid.
halting
::One who halts or limps; a cripple.
hallowed
::belonging to or derived from or associated with a divine power; made holy. Opposite of <ant>unholy</ant>.
hail
::Healthy. See hale (the preferable spelling).
halcyon
::Pertaining to, or resembling, the halcyon, which was anciently said to lay her eggs in nests on or near the sea during the calm weather about the winter solstice.
hackneyed
::Let out for hire; devoted to common use; hence, much used; trite; mean
growl
::The deep, threatening sound made by a surly dog; a grumbling sound.
hackles
::A comb for dressing flax, raw silk, etc.; a hatchel.
overturn
::The act off overturning, or the state of being overturned or subverted; overthrow.
topple
::To fall forward; to pitch or tumble down.
gust
::A sudden squall; a violent blast of wind; a sudden and brief rushing or driving of the wind.
gusty
::Subject to, or characterized by, gusts or squalls; windy; stormy; tempestuous.
gusto
::Nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; relish; taste; fancy.
guise
::Customary way of speaking or acting; custom; fashion; manner; behavior; mien; mode; practice; -- often used formerly in such phrases as: .
cunning
::Knowing; skillful; dexterous.
guffaw
::A loud burst of laughter; a horse laugh.
grunt
::A deep, guttural sound, as of a hog.
gruff
::Of a rough or stern manner, voice, or countenance; sour; surly; severe; harsh.
gruesome
::Ugly; frightful. Same as grewsome.
grueling
::characterized by toilsome effort; requiring extreme physical or mental effort.
oatmeal
::Meal made of oats.
porridge
::A food made by boiling some leguminous or farinaceous substance, or the meal of it, in water or in milk, making of broth or thin pudding
gruel
::A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal, or flour in water or milk; thin porridge.
grudging
::Sullen malice or malevolence; cherished malice, enmity, or dislike; ill will; an old cause of hatred or quarrel.
grovel
::To creep on the earth, or with the face to the ground; to lie prone, or move uneasily with the body prostrate on the earth; to lie flat on one's belly, expressive of abjectness; to crawl.
mutter
::Repressed or obscure utterance.
grumble
::The noise of one that grumbles.
grouse
::Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of the family Tetraonidæ, and subfamily Tetraoninæ, inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America. They have plump bodies, strong, well-feathered legs, and usually mottled plumage. The group includes the ptarmigans (Lagopus), having feathered feet.
grotto
::A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment.
grotesque
::Like the figures found in ancient grottoes; grottolike.
groom
::A boy or young man; a waiter; a servant; especially, a man or boy who has charge of horses, or the stable.
grisly
::Frightful; horrible; dreadful; harsh
grimace
::A distortion of the countenance, whether habitual, from affectation, or momentary and occasional, to express some feeling, as contempt, disapprobation, complacency, etc.; a smirk; a made-up face.
broil
::A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention; discord, either between individuals or in the state.
grill
::A gridiron.
grievance
::A cause of uneasiness and complaint; a wrong done and suffered; that which gives ground for remonstrance or resistance, as arising from injustice, tyranny, etc.; injury.
gregarious
::Habitually living or moving in flocks or herds; tending to flock or herd together; not habitually solitary or living alone.
gravity
::The state of having weight; beaviness.
gratuity
::Something given freely or without recompense; a free gift; a present.
gratuitous
::Given without an equivalent or recompense; conferred without valuable consideration; granted without pay, or without claim or merit; not required by justice.
gratify
::To please; to give pleasure to; to satisfy; to soothe; to indulge
grate
::Serving to gratify; agreeable.
grapple
::A seizing or seizure; close hug in contest; the wrestler's hold.
graphite
::Native carbon in hexagonal crystals, also foliated or granular massive, of black color and metallic luster, and so soft as to leave a trace on paper. It is used for pencils (improperly called lead pencils), for crucibles, and as a lubricator, etc. Often called plumbago or black lead.
vivid
::True to the life; exhibiting the appearance of life or freshness; animated; spirited; bright; strong; intense.
granulate
::Consisting of, or resembling, grains; crystallized in grains; granular.
grandiose
::Impressive or elevating in effect; imposing; splendid; striking; -- in a good sense.
stately
::Evincing state or dignity; lofty; majestic; grand.
granary
::A storehouse or repository for grain, esp. after it is thrashed or husked; a cornhouse.
graduate
::Arranged by successive steps or degrees; graduated.
graduated
::Marked with, or divided into, degrees; divided into grades.
gourmet
::A connoisseur in eating and drinking; an epicure.
gourmand
::A greedy or ravenous eater; a glutton. See gormand.
gouge
::A chisel, with a hollow or semicylindrical blade, for scooping or cutting holes, channels, or grooves, in wood, stone, etc.; a similar instrument, with curved edge, for turning wood.
gory
::Covered with gore or clotted blood.
gorge
::The throat; the gullet; the canal by which food passes to the stomach.
goad
::A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any necessity that urges or stimulates.
gnarl
::a knot in wood; a large or hard knot, or a protuberance with twisted grain, on a tree.
gnarled
::Knotty; full of knots or gnarls; twisted; crossgrained.
glutton
::Gluttonous; greedy; gormandizing.
scowl
::The wrinkling of the brows or face in frowing; the expression of displeasure, sullenness, or discontent in the countenance; an angry frown.
finished
::Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete; perfect
finish
::That which finishes, puts an end to� or perfects.
mat
::Cast down; dejected; overthrown; slain.
glossy
::Smooth and shining; reflecting luster from a smooth surface; highly polished; lustrous
glossary
::A collection of glosses or explanations of words and passages of a work or author; a partial dictionary of a work, an author, a dialect, art, or science, explaining archaic, technical, or other uncommon words.
gloss
::Brightness or luster of a body proceeding from a smooth surface; polish
gloss_over
gloat
::To look steadfastly; to gaze earnestly; to gaze with passionate desire, lust, or avarice.
glamor
::Same as glamour.
glitter
::A bright, sparkling light; brilliant and showy luster; brilliancy
glimmer
::A faint, unsteady light; feeble, scattered rays of light; also, a gleam.
slick
::Sleek; smooth.
glib
::Smooth; slippery.
glean
::A collection made by gleaning.
glaze
::The vitreous coating of pottery or porcelain; anything used as a coating or color in glazing. See glaze, v. t., 3.
glaring
::Clear; notorious; open and bold; barefaced.
glacial
::Pertaining to ice or to its action; consisting of ice; frozen; icy; esp., pertaining to glaciers.
gist
::A resting place.
girth
::A band or strap which encircles the body; especially, one by which a saddle is fastened upon the back of a horse.
gingerly
::Cautiously; timidly; fastidiously; daintily.
giddy
::Having in the head a sensation of whirling or reeling about; having lost the power of preserving the balance of the body, and therefore wavering and inclined to fall; lightheaded; dizzy.
gibe
::An expression of sarcastic scorn; a sarcastic jest; a scoff; a taunt; a sneer.
gibberish
::Unmeaning.
ghastly
::Like a ghost in appearance; deathlike; pale; pallid; dismal.
gesticulation
::The act of gesticulating, or making gestures to express passion or enforce sentiments.
natal
::Of or pertaining to one's birth; accompying or dating from one's birth; native.
gestate
gerrymander
::To divide (a State) into districts for the choice of representatives, in an unnatural and unfair way, with a view to give a political party an advantage over its opponent.
geriatrics
gerontology
gerontocracy
::Government by old men.
shoot
::An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course.
sprout
::The shoot of a plant; a shoot from the seed, from the stump, or from the root or tuber, of a plant or tree; more rarely, a shoot from the stem of a plant, or the end of a branch.
germinate
::To sprout; to bud; to shoot; to begin to vegetate, as a plant or its seed; to begin to develop, as a germ.
germ
::That which is to develop a new individual; ; the earliest form under which an organism appears.
germinal
::Pertaining or belonging to a germ.
germane
::Literally, near akin; hence, closely allied; appropriate or fitting; relevant.
genuflect
::To bend the knee, as in worship.
gentle
::Well-born; of a good family or respectable birth, though not noble.
gentry
::Birth; condition; rank by birth.
crossbreed
::See in the Vocabulary.
crossbreed
::See in the Vocabulary.
genteel
::Possessing or exhibiting the qualities popularly regarded as belonging to high birth and breeding; free from vulgarity, or lowness of taste or behavior; adapted to a refined or cultivated taste; polite; well-bred.
geniality
::The quality of being genial; sympathetic cheerfulness; warmth of disposition and manners.
genesis
::The act of producing, or giving birth or origin to anything; the process or mode of originating; production; formation; origination.
galaxy
futile
::Talkative; loquacious; tattling.
fusion
::The act or operation of melting or rendering fluid by heat; the act of melting together.
underhand
::Secret; clandestine; hence, mean; unfair; fraudulent.
sneak
::A mean, sneaking fellow.
fundamental
::Pertaining to the foundation or basis; serving for the foundation.
fumble
::To feel or grope about; to make awkward attempts to do or find something.
fulminate
::A salt of fulminic acid. See under fulminic.
fugitive
::Fleeing from pursuit, danger, restraint, etc., escaping, from service, duty etc.
frugality
::The quality of being frugal; prudent economy; that careful management of anything valuable which expends nothing unnecessarily, and applies what is used to a profitable purpose; thrift; --- opposed to extravagance.
frond
::The organ formed by the combination or union into one body of stem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; ; also, the peculiar leaf of a palm tree.
frolic
::Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full of pranks; frolicsome; gay; merry.
frolicsome
::Full of gayety and mirth; given to pranks; sportive.
carefree
::Free of trouble and worry and care.
self-indulgence
::Indulgence of one's appetites, desires, or inclinations; -- the opposite of <ant>self-restraint</ant>, and <ant>self-denial</ant>.
frivolous
::Of little weight or importance; not worth notice; slight.
fritter
::A small quantity of batter, fried in boiling lard or in a frying pan. Fritters are of various kinds, named from the substance inclosed in the batter.
frieze
::That part of the entablature of an order which is between the architrave and cornice. It is a flat member or face, either uniform or broken by triglyphs, and often enriched with figures and other ornaments of sculpture.
fret
::See 1st frith.
plaster
::An external application of a consistency harder than ointment, prepared for use by spreading it on linen, leather, silk, or other material. It is adhesive at the ordinary temperature of the body, and is used, according to its composition, to produce a medicinal effect, to bind parts together, etc..
pastry
::The place where pastry is made.
paste
::A soft composition, as of flour moistened with water or milk, or of earth moistened to the consistence of dough, as in making potter's ware.
frenzied
::Affected with frenzy; frantic; maddened.
frenetic
::Distracted; mad; frantic; phrenetic.
fraught
::Freighted; laden; filled; stored; charged.
fraudulent
::Using fraud; tricky; deceitful; dishonest.
franchise
::Exemption from constraint or oppression; freedom; liberty.
frail
::Easily broken; fragile; not firm or durable; liable to fail and perish; easily destroyed; not tenacious of life; weak; infirm.
fractious
::Apt to break out into a passion; apt to scold; cross; snappish; ugly; unruly
fracas
::An uproar; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl.
founder
::One who founds, establishes, and erects; one who lays a foundation; an author; one from whom anything originates; one who endows.
fortitude
::Power to resist attack; strength; firmness.
forthrightforthcoming
formality
::The condition or quality of being formal, strictly ceremonious, precise, etc.
forgo
::To pass by; to leave. See 1st forego.
forge
::A place or establishment where iron or other metals are wrought by heating and hammering; especially, a furnace, or a shop with its furnace, etc., where iron is heated and wrought; a smithy.
forfeit
::Lost or alienated for an offense or crime; liable to penal seizure.
nuptial
::Of or pertaining to marriage; done or used at a wedding.
forestall
::To take beforehand, or in advance; to anticipate.
foresight
::that one of the two sights of a gun which is near the muzzle.
forerunner
::A messenger sent before to give notice of the approach of others; a harbinger; a sign foreshowing something; a prognostic.
forum
::A market place or public place in Rome, where causes were judicially tried, and orations delivered to the people.
forensic
::Belonging to courts of judicature or to public discussion and debate; used in legal proceedings, or in public discussions; argumentative; rhetorical.
foreboding
::Presage of coming ill; expectation of misfortune.
forebears
ford
::A place in a river, or other water, where it may be passed by man or beast on foot, by wading.
forbearance
::The act of forbearing or waiting; the exercise of patience.
foray
::A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, any irregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid.
foppish
::Foplike; characteristic of a top in dress or manners; making an ostentatious display of gay clothing; affected in manners.
foppish
::Foplike; characteristic of a top in dress or manners; making an ostentatious display of gay clothing; affected in manners.
foliage
::Leaves, collectively, as produced or arranged by nature; leafage.
foist
::A light and fast-sailing ship.
foil
::Failure of success when on the point of attainment; defeat; frustration; miscarriage.
foible
::Weak; feeble.
fodder
::A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerly sold, in England, varying from 191/2 to 24 cwt.; a fother.
flux
::Flowing; unstable; inconstant; variable.
stammer
::Defective utterance, or involuntary interruption of utterance; a stutter.
groove
::A furrow, channel, or long hollow, such as may be formed by cutting, molding, grinding, the wearing force of flowing water, or constant travel; a depressed way; a worn path; a rut.
fluted
::Thin; fine; clear and mellow; flutelike.
fluster
::Heat or glow, as from drinking; agitation mingled with confusion; disorder.
fluency
::The quality of being fluent; smoothness; readiness of utterance; volubility.
curb
::That which curbs, restrains, or subdues; a check or hindrance; esp., a chain or strap attached to the upper part of the branches of a bit, and capable of being drawn tightly against the lower jaw of the horse.
flourish
::A flourishing condition; prosperity; vigor.
thrash
::To beat out grain from, as straw or husks; to beat the straw or husk of (grain) with a flail; to beat off, as the kernels of grain.
flounder
::A flatfish of the family Pleuronectidæ, of many species.
jetsam
::Goods which sink when cast into the sea, and remain under water; -- distinguished from <contr>flotsam</contr>, goods which float, and <contr>ligan</contr> (or <contr>lagan</contr>), goods which are sunk attached to a buoy.
flotsam
::Goods lost by shipwreck, and floating on the sea; -- in distinction from jetsam or jetson.
flowery
::Full of flowers; abounding with blossoms.
tint
::A slight coloring.
tinge
::A degree, usually a slight degree, of some color, taste, or something foreign, infused into another substance or mixture, or added to it; tincture; color; dye; hue; shade; taste.
blush
::A suffusion of the cheeks or face with red, as from a sense of shame, confusion, or modesty.
flush
::Full of vigor; fresh; glowing; bright.
florescence
::A bursting into flower; a blossoming.
flora
::The goddess of flowers and spring.
floe
::A low, flat mass of floating ice.
flit
::Nimble; quick; swift. [Obs.] See fleet.
flip
::A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron.
flippant
::Of smooth, fluent, and rapid speech; speaking with ease and rapidity; having a voluble tongue; talkative.
flinch
::The act of flinching.
flutter
::The act of fluttering; quick and irregular motion; vibration.
flicker
::The act of wavering or of fluttering; fluctuation; sudden and brief increase of brightness.
flick
::A flitch.
shear
::A pair of shears; -- now always used in the plural, but formerly also in the singular. See shears.
fleece
::The entire coat of wool that covers a sheep or other similar animal; also, the quantity shorn from a sheep, or animal, at one time.
fledgling
::having just acquired its flight feathers; -- of a young bird.
fleck
::A flake; also, a lock, as of wool.
flay
::To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of
flaunt
::Anything displayed for show.
flair
::Smell; odor.
toss
::A throwing upward, or with a jerk; the act of tossing.
thresh
::Same as thrash.
flail
::An instrument for threshing or beating grain from the ear by hand, consisting of a wooden staff or handle, at the end of which a stouter and shorter pole or club, called a swipe, is so hung as to swing freely.
outrage
::Injurious violence or wanton wrong done to persons or things; a gross violation of right or decency; excessive abuse; wanton mischief; gross injury.
flagrant
::Flaming; inflamed; glowing; burning; ardent.
droop
::A drooping.
flag
::That which flags or hangs down loosely.
limp
::Flaccid; flabby, as flesh.
flaccid
::Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; soft and weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby
fit
::imp. & p. p. of fight.
fitful
::Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable.
fissure
::A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; a cleft.
hothead
::A violent, passionate person; a hasty or impetuous person.
firebrand
::A piece of burning wood.
finite
::Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite
fuss
::A tumult; a bustle; unnecessary or annoying ado about trifles.
fussy
::Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado about trifles; overnice; fidgety.
finicky
finesse
::Subtilty of contrivance to gain a point; artifice; stratagem.
finale
::The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or any instrumental composition.
filing
::A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing.
lace
::That which binds or holds, especially by being interwoven; a string, cord, or band, usually one passing through eyelet or other holes, and used in drawing and holding together parts of a garment, of a shoe, of a machine belt, etc.
filigree
::Relating to, composed of, or resembling, work in filigree. Hence: Fanciful; unsubstantial; merely decorative.
bust
::A piece of sculpture representing the upper part of the human figure, including the head, shoulders, and breast.
freebooter
::One who plunders or pillages without the authority of national warfare; a member of a predatory band; a pillager; a buccaneer; a sea robber.
filibuster
::A lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest of plunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infesting the Spanish American coasts, but introduced into common English to designate the followers of Lopez in his expedition to Cuba in 1851, and those of Walker in his expedition to Nicaragua, in 1855.
filial
::Of or pertaining to a son or daughter; becoming to a child in relation to his parents.
pilfer
::To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to practice petty theft.
filch
::To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value); to pilfer.
figurine
::A very small figure, whether human or of an animal; especially, one in terra cotta or the like; -- distinguished from <contr>statuette</contr>, which is applied to small figures in bronze, marble, etc.
figure
::The form of anything; shape; outline; appearance.
figurative
::Representing by a figure, or by resemblance; typical; representative.
figment
::An invention; a fiction; something feigned or imagined.
fictitious
::Feigned; imaginary; not real; fabulous; counterfeit; false; not genuine.
fickle
::Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious.
fiat
::An authoritative command or order to do something; an effectual decree.
fiasco
::A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musical performance, or of any pretentious undertaking.
fetter
::A chain or shackle for the feet; a chain by which an animal is confined by the foot, either made fast or disabled from free and rapid motion; a bond; a shackle.
fetish
::See fetich, n., fetichism, n., fetichistic, a.
foul
::Covered with, or containing, extraneous matter which is injurious, noxious, offensive, or obstructive; filthy; dirty; not clean; polluted; nasty; defiled
fetid
::Having an offensive smell; stinking.
fete
::A feat.
festive
::Pertaining to, or becoming, a feast; festal; joyous; gay; mirthful; sportive.
fester
::A small sore which becomes inflamed and discharges corrupt matter; a pustule.
impassionedfervor
fell
::imp. of fall.
feline
::Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidæ
felicity
::The state of being happy; blessedness; blissfulness; enjoyment of good.
felicitous
::Characterized by felicity; happy; prosperous; delightful; skillful; successful; happily applied or expressed; appropriate.
shift
::The act of shifting.
feint
::Feigned; counterfeit.
feign
::To give a mental existence to, as to something not real or actual; to imagine; to invent; hence, to pretend; to form and relate as if true.
fruitful
::Full of fruit; producing fruit abundantly; bearing results; prolific; fertile; liberal; bountiful
fertile
::Producing fruit or vegetation in abundance; fruitful; able to produce abundantly; prolific; fecund; productive; rich; inventive
fecundity
::The quality or power of producing fruit; fruitfulness; especially (Biol.), the quality in female organisms of reproducing rapidly and in great numbers.
febrile
::Pertaining to fever; indicating fever, or derived from it
feasible
::Capable of being done, executed, or effected; practicable.
faze
::To cause to become disconcerted or disturbed. A variant form of feeze.
court
::An inclosed space; a courtyard; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley.
fauna
::The animals of any given area or epoch
fatuous
::Feeble in mind; weak; silly; stupid; foolish; fatuitous.
fathomless
::Incapable of being fathomed; immeasurable; that can not be sounded.
fathom
::A measure of length, containing six feet; the space to which a man can extend his arms; -- used chiefly in measuring cables, cordage, and the depth of navigable water by soundings.
fatalism
::The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity.
squeamish
::Having a stomach that is easily turned or nauseated; hence, nice to excess in taste; fastidious; easily disgusted; apt to be offended at trifling improprieties.
fastidious
::Difficult to please; delicate to a fault; suited with difficulty; squeamish
farce
::Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing a fowl; forcemeat.
fanfare
::A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.; also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during the chase.
fancy
::Adapted to please the fancy or taste, especially when of high quality or unusually appealing; ornamental.
fanciful
::Full of fancy; guided by fancy, rather than by reason and experience; whimsical.
fancied
::Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal.
stumble
::A trip in walking or running.
sow
::The female of swine, or of the hog kind.
fallow
::Pale red or pale yellow.
expiate
::Terminated.
expertise
outgoing
::Going out; departing; leaving
expansive
::Having a capacity or tendency to expand or dilate; diffusive; of much expanse; wide-extending
intrigue
::Intricacy; complication.
exotic
::Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous; foreign
exorcise
::To cast out, as a devil, evil spirits, etc., by conjuration or summoning by a holy name, or by certain ceremonies; to expel (a demon) or to conjure (a demon) to depart out of a person possessed by one.
exorbitant
::Departing from an orbit or usual track; hence, deviating from the usual or due course; going beyond the appointed rules or established limits of right or propriety; excessive; extravagant; enormous; inordinate
exonerate
::To unload; to disburden; to discharge.
exodus
::A going out; particularly (the Exodus), the going out or journey of the Israelites from Egypt under the conduct of Moses; and hence, any large migration from a place.
existential
::Having existence.
exiguous
::Scanty; small; slender; diminutive.
exigency
::The state of being exigent; urgent or exacting want; pressing necessity or distress; need; a case demanding immediate action, supply, or remedy.
exhume
::To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; to disinter.
urgent
::Urging; pressing; besetting; plying, with importunity; calling for immediate attention; instantly important.
exegesis
::Exposition; explanation; especially, a critical explanation of a text or portion of Scripture.
judiciary
::Of or pertaining to courts of judicature, or legal tribunals; judicial.
legislature
::The body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.
executive
::Designed or fitted for execution, or carrying into effect; ; qualifying for, concerned with, or pertaining to, the execution of the laws or the conduct of affairs
executioner
::One who executes; an executer.
executor
::One who executes or performs; a doer.
execute
::To do one's work; to act one's part or purpose.
execrate
::To denounce evil against, or to imprecate evil upon; to curse; to protest against as unholy or detestable; hence, to detest utterly; to abhor; to abominate.
execrable
::Deserving to be execrated; accursed; damnable; detestable; abominable.
exculpate
::To clear from alleged fault or guilt; to prove to be guiltless; to relieve of blame; to acquit.
excoriate
::To strip or wear off the skin of; to abrade; to gall; to break and remove the cuticle of, in any manner, as by rubbing, beating, or by the action of acrid substances.
exclaim
::Outcry; clamor.
excise
::In inland duty or impost operating as an indirect tax on the consumer, levied upon certain specified articles, as, tobacco, ale, spirits, etc., grown or manufactured in the country. It is also levied to pursue certain trades and deal in certain commodities. Certain direct taxes (as, in England, those on carriages, servants, plate, armorial bearings, etc.), are included in the excise. Often used adjectively
treasure
::Wealth accumulated; especially, a stock, or store of money in reserve.
chancellor
::A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.
exchequer
::One of the superior courts of law; -- so called from a checkered cloth, which covers, or formerly covered, the table.
excerpt
::An extract; a passage selected or copied from a book or record.
except
::Unless; if it be not so that.
exasperate
::Exasperated; imbittered.
ewe
::The female of the sheep, and of sheeplike animals.
evoke
::To call out; to summon forth.
evocative
::Calling forth; serving to evoke; developing.
evenhanded
::Fair or impartial; unbiased.
evince
::To conquer; to subdue.
evasive
::Tending to evade, or marked by evasion; elusive; shuffling; avoiding by artifice.
euthanasia
::An easy death; a mode of dying to be desired.
euphoria
::a strong pleasant feeling of well-being or happiness; it is often caused by attainment of a desired goal or other incident of accomplishment, but may irrationally accompany a pathological manic state.
euphony
::A pleasing or sweet sound; an easy, smooth enunciation of sounds; a pronunciation of letters and syllables which is pleasing to the ear.
eulogy
::A speech or writing in commendation of the character or services of a person.
eulogistic
::Of or pertaining to eulogy; characterized by eulogy; bestowing praise; panegyrical; commendatory; laudatory.
etymology
::That branch of philological science which treats of the history of words, tracing out their origin, primitive significance, and changes of form and meaning.
ethos
::The character, sentiment, or disposition of a community or people, considered as a natural endowment; the spirit which actuates manners and customs; also, the characteristic tone or genius of an institution or social organization.
ethnology
::The science which treats of the division of mankind into races, their origin, distribution, and relations, and the peculiarities which characterize them.
ethnic
::Belonging to races or nations; based on distinctions of race; ethnological.
airy
::Consisting of air
ethereal
::Pertaining to the hypothetical upper, purer air, or to the higher regions beyond the earth or beyond the atmosphere; celestial
estranged
::To withdraw; to withhold; hence, reflexively, to keep at a distance; to cease to be familiar and friendly with.
esteem
::Estimation; opinion of merit or value; hence, valuation; reckoning; price.
espouse
::To betroth; to promise in marriage; to give as spouse.
espionage
::The practice or employment of spies; the practice of watching the words and conduct of others, to make discoveries, as spies or secret emissaries; secret watching.
flighty
::Fleeting; swift; transient.
prank
::Full of gambols or tricks.
escapade
::The fling of a horse, or ordinary kicking back of his heels; a gambol.
erudite
::Characterized by extensive reading or knowledge; well instructed; learned.
erroneous
::Wandering; straying; deviating from the right course; -- hence, irregular; unnatural.
erratic
::Having no certain course; roving about without a fixed destination; wandering; moving; -- hence, applied to the planets as distinguished from the fixed stars.
errant
::Wandering; deviating from an appointed course, or from a direct path; roving.
erotic
::Of or pertaining to the passion of love; treating of love; amatory.
erode
::To eat into or away; to corrode.
equivocate
::To use words of equivocal or doubtful signification; to express one's opinions in terms which admit of different senses, with intent to deceive; to use ambiguous expressions with a view to mislead.
equity
::Equality of rights; natural justice or right; the giving, or desiring to give, to each man his due, according to reason, and the law of God to man; fairness in determination of conflicting claims; impartiality.
equitable
::Possessing or exhibiting equity; according to natural right or natural justice; marked by a due consideration for what is fair, unbiased, or impartial; just.
equipoise
::Equality of weight or force; hence, equilibrium; a state in which the two ends or sides of a thing are balanced, and hence equal; state of being equally balanced; -- said of moral, political, or social interests or forces.
equinox
::The time when the sun enters one of the equinoctial points, that is, about March 21 and September 22. See Autumnal equinox, Vernal equinox, under autumnal and vernal.
equine
::Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse.
equestrian
::Of or pertaining to horses or horsemen, or to horsemanship.
equanimity
::Evenness of mind; that calm temper or firmness of mind which is not easily elated or depressed; patience; calmness; composure.
epoch
::A fixed point of time, established in history by the occurrence of some grand or remarkable event; a point of time marked by an event of great subsequent influence
epithet
::An adjective expressing some quality, attribute, or relation, that is properly or specially appropriate to a person or thing.
epistemologist
episodic
::Of or pertaining to an episode; adventitious.
epilogue
::A speech or short poem addressed to the spectators and recited by one of the actors, after the conclusion of the play.
epigram
::A short poem treating concisely and pointedly of a single thought or event. The modern epigram is so contrived as to surprise the reader with a witticism or ingenious turn of thought, and is often satirical in character.
epicure
::A follower of Epicurus; an Epicurean.
epic
::Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kind of narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real or fictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, are narrated in an elevated style.
fleet
::Swift in motion; moving with velocity; light and quick in going from place to place; nimble.
ephemeral
::Beginning and ending in a day; existing only, or no longer than, a day; diurnal.
epauletepaulette
environ
::About; around.
enunciate
::To utter words or syllables articulately.
enumerate
::To count; to tell by numbers; to count over, or tell off one after another; to number; to reckon up; to mention one by one; to name over; to make a special and separate account of; to recount.
entrepreneur
::One who takes the initiative to create a product or establish a business for profit; generally, whoever undertakes on his own account an enterprise in which others are employed and risks are taken.
entreat
::Entreaty.
hypnosis
::Supervention of sleep.
trance
::A tedious journey.
entrance
::The act of entering or going into; ingress; ; hence, the act of taking possession, as of property, or of office.
entomology
::That part of zoölogy which treats of insects.
entity
::A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception) or in fact; being; essence; existence.
mischief
::Harm; damage; esp., disarrangement of order; trouble or vexation caused by human agency or by some living being, intentionally or not; often, calamity, mishap; trivial evil caused by thoughtlessness, or in sport.
entice
::To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract. Often in a bad sense: To lead astray; to induce to evil; to tempt.
enthrall
::To hold in thrall; to enslave. See inthrall.
enterprising
::Having a disposition for enterprise; characterized by enterprise; resolute, active or prompt to attempt.
entail
::That which is entailed.
ensue
::To follow or come afterward; to follow as a consequence or in chronological succession; to result
ensconce
::To cover or shelter, as with a sconce or fort; to place or hide securely; to conceal.
enrapture
::To transport with pleasure; to delight beyond measure; to enravish.
enormity
::The state or quality of exceeding a measure or rule, or of being immoderate, monstrous, or outrageous.
ennui
::A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor of spirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium.
enmity
::The quality of being an enemy; hostile or unfriendly disposition.
enjoin
::To lay upon, as an order or command; to give an injunction to; to direct with authority; to order; to charge.
puzzle
::Something which perplexes or embarrasses; especially, a toy or a problem contrived for testing ingenuity; also, something exhibiting marvelous skill in making.
enigma
::A dark, obscure, or inexplicable saying; a riddle; a statement, the hidden meaning of which is to be discovered or guessed.
enhance
::To be raised up; to grow larger.
engross
::To make gross, thick, or large; to thicken; to increase in bulk or quantity.
engender
::One who, or that which, engenders.
engaged
::Occupied; employed; busy.
engaging
::Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive.
enfranchise
::To set free; to liberate from slavery, prison, or any binding power.
enervate
::Weakened; weak; without strength of force.
energize
::To use strength in action; to act or operate with force or vigor; to act in producing an effect.
enduring
::Lasting; durable; long-suffering.
endue
::To invest.
endorse
::A subordinary, resembling the pale, but of one fourth its width (according to some writers, one eighth).
endemic
::Peculiar to a district or particular locality, or class of persons.
endear
::To make dear or beloved.
endearment
::The act of endearing or the state of being endeared; also, that which manifests, excites, or increases, affection.
encumber
::To impede the motion or action of, as with a burden; to retard with something superfluous; to weigh down; to obstruct or embarrass
encroachment
::The act of entering gradually or silently upon the rights or possessions of another; unlawful intrusion.
encompass
::To circumscribe or go round so as to surround closely; to encircle; to inclose; to environ
encomiastic
::Bestowing praise; praising; eulogistic; laudatory.
enclave
::A tract of land or a territory inclosed within another territory of which it is independent. See exclave.
encipher
enamored
::To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, or with, before the person or thing
emulate
::Striving to excel; ambitious; emulous.
empirical
compassion
::Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrow excited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity; commiseration.
empathy
emolument
::The profit arising from office, employment, or labor; gain; compensation; advantage; perquisites, fees, or salary.
emollient
::Softening; making supple; acting as an emollient.
emissary
::Exploring; spying.
eminent
::High; lofty; towering; prominent.
emetic
::Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge its contents by the mouth.
emend
::To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to make corrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textual criticism, generally verbal.
embryonic
::Of or pertaining to an embryo; embryonal; rudimentary.
embroil
::See embroilment.
embroider
::To ornament with needlework.
encircle
::To form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; to surround
embrace
::Intimate or close encircling with the arms; pressure to the bosom; clasp; hug.
emboss
::To seek the bushy forest; to hide in the woods.
embody
::To unite in a body, a mass, or a collection; to coalesce.
emblazon
::To depict or represent; -- said of heraldic bearings. See blazon.
embezzlement
::The fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom it has been intrusted
embedimbed
embark
::To go on board a vessel or a boat for a voyage.
embargo
::An edict or order of the government prohibiting the departure of ships of commerce from some or all of the ports within its dominions; a prohibition to sail.
emancipate
::Set at liberty.
emanate
::Issuing forth; emanant.
emaciated
::having become so thin that the bones noticeably protude under the skin.
Elysium
::A dwelling place assigned to happy souls after death; the seat of future happiness; Paradise.
elysian
::Pertaining, or the abode of the blessed after death; hence, yielding the highest pleasures; exceedingly delightful; beatific.
elusive
::Tending to elude; using arts or deception to escape; adroitly escaping or evading; eluding the grasp; fallacious.
elucidate
::To make clear or manifest; to render more intelligible; to illustrate.
eloquence
::Fluent, forcible, elegant, and persuasive speech in public; the power of expressing strong emotions in striking and appropriate language either spoken or written, thereby producing conviction or persuasion.
elliptical
ellipsis
::Omission; a figure of syntax, by which one or more words, which are obviously understood, are omitted.
elixir
::A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture or medicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcohol in some form.
elegy
::A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem of lamentation.
elated
::Lifted up; raised; elevated.
elaborate
::Wrought with labor; finished with great care; studied; executed with exactness or painstaking
elaboration
::The act or process of producing or refining with labor; improvement by successive operations; refinement.
ejaculation
::The act of throwing or darting out with a sudden force and rapid flight.
egress
::The act of going out or leaving, or the power to leave; departure.
egregious
::Surpassing; extraordinary; distinguished (in a bad sense); -- formerly used with words importing a good quality, but now joined with words having a bad sense
egotism
::The practice of too frequently using the word I; hence, a speaking or writing overmuch of one's self; self-exaltation; self-praise; the act or practice of magnifying one's self or parading one's own doings. The word is also used in the sense of egoism.
egotistical
ego
::The conscious and permanent subject of all psychical experiences, whether held to be directly known or the product of reflective thought; the subject consciously considered as “I” by a person; -- opposed to <contr>non-ego</contr>.
egoism
::The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples of Descartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements of knowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or provides for.
gush
::To issue with violence and rapidity, as a fluid; to rush forth as a fluid from confinement; to flow copiously.
effusion
::The act of pouring out.
effulgent
::Diffusing a flood of light; shining; luminous; beaming; bright; splendid.
effrontery
::Impudence or boldness in confronting or in transgressing the bounds of duty or decorum; insulting presumptuousness; shameless boldness; barefaced assurance.
effluvium
::Subtile or invisible emanation; exhalation perceived by the sense of smell; especially, noisome or noxious exhalation.
dummy
::Silent; mute; noiseless; as a dummy engine.
effigy
::The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of the heads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits.
efficacy
::Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent or force; production of the effect intended
effete
::No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit, as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy; incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile.
effervescence
::A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid which takes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form, producing innumerable small bubbles.
castrate
::To deprive of the testicles; to emasculate; to geld; to alter.
duress
::Hardship; constraint; pressure; imprisonment; restraint of liberty.
duration
::The state or quality of lasting; continuance in time; the portion of time during which anything exists.
duplicity
::Doubleness; a twofold state.
dupe
::One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull.
dulcet
::Sweet to the taste; luscious.
dubious
::Doubtful or not settled in opinion; being in doubt; wavering or fluctuating; undetermined.
drudge
::One who drudges; one who works hard in servile employment; a mental servant.
drudgery
::The act of drudging; disagreeable and wearisome labor; ignoble or slavish toil.
dross
::The scum or refuse matter which is thrown off, or falls from, metals in smelting the ore, or in the process of melting; recrement.
drone
::The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey. See honeybee.
queer
::At variance with what is usual or normal; differing in some odd way from what is ordinary; odd; singular; strange; whimsical.
droll
::Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity; amusing and strange.
trickle
::The act or state of trickling; also, that which trickles; a small stream; drip.
drip
::A falling or letting fall in drops; a dripping; that which drips, or falls in drops.
dribble
::A drizzling shower; a falling or leaking in drops.
nonsense
::That which is not sense, or has no sense; words, or language, which have no meaning, or which convey no intelligible ideas; absurdity.
drivel
::Slaver; saliva flowing from the mouth.
dregs
draconian
::Pertaining to Draco, a famous lawgiver of Athens, 621 b. c. Used especially in the phrase Draconian punishment.
drab
::Of a color between gray and brown.
downcast
::Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness, modesty, dejection, or guilt.
maneuver
::Management; dexterous movement; specif., a military or naval evolution, movement, or change of position.
dowdy
::Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress; vulgar-looking.
douse
::To fall suddenly into water.
brood
::Sitting or inclined to sit on eggs.
sullen
::Lonely; solitary; desolate.
dour
::Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold.
dote
::A marriage portion. [Obs.] See 1st dot, n.
dossier
::A bundle containing the papers in reference to some matter.
dorsal
::Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of an animal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; ; -- opposed to <contr>ventral</contr>.
dormer
::A window pierced in a roof, and so set as to be vertical while the roof slopes away from it. Also, the gablet, or houselike structure, in which it is contained.
dormant
::A large beam in the roof of a house upon which portions of the other timbers rest or “ sleep.”
outfit
::A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of a person for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in a foreign land; the expense of, or allowance made for, equipment, as by the government of the United States to a diplomatic agent going abroad.
don
::Sir; Mr; Signior; -- a title in Spain, formerly given to noblemen and gentlemen only, but now common to all classes.
dominant
::Ruling; governing; prevailing; controlling; predominant.
dominate
::To be dominant.
domineer
::To rule with insolence or arbitrary sway; to play the master; to be overbearing; to tyrannize; to bluster; to swell with conscious superiority or haughtiness; -- often with over.
domicile
::An abode or mansion; a place of permanent residence, either of an individual or a family.
dolt
::A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus; a dunce; a dullard.
dolorous
::Full of grief; sad; sorrowful; doleful; dismal
blues
::a type of folk song that originated among Black Americans at the beginning of the 20th century; has a melancholoy sound from repeated used of blue notes.
doldrums
::A part of the ocean near the equator, abounding in calms, squalls, and light, baffling winds, which sometimes prevent all progress for weeks; -- so called by sailors.
dogmatic
::Pertaining to a dogma, or to an established and authorized doctrine or tenet.
doggerel
::Low in style, and irregular in measure.
persevere
::To persist in any business or enterprise undertaken; to pursue steadily any project or course begun; to maintain a purpose in spite of counter influences, opposition, or discouragement; not to give or abandon what is undertaken.
dogged
::Sullen; morose.
doff
::To put off dress; to take off the hat.
merit
::The quality or state of deserving well or ill; desert.
doddering
::shaking as from old age.
document
::That which is taught or authoritatively set forth; precept; instruction; dogma.
indoctrinate
::To instruct in the rudiments or principles of learning, or of a branch of learning; to imbue with learning; to teach; -- often followed by in.
doctrine
::Teaching; instruction.
doctrinaire
::One who would apply to political or other practical concerns the abstract doctrines or the theories of his own philosophical system; a propounder of a new set of opinions; a dogmatic theorist. Used also adjectively.
docket
::A small piece of paper or parchment, containing the heads of a writing; a summary or digest.
ferocious
::Fierce; savage; wild; indicating cruelty; ravenous; rapacious
docile
::Teachable; easy to teach; docible.
divulge
::To become publicly known.
dowse
::A blow on the face.
divine
::Of or belonging to God
divest
::To unclothe; to strip, as of clothes, arms, or equipage; -- opposed to <ant>invest</ant>.
diversion
::The act of turning aside from any course, occupation, or object
diverse
::Different; unlike; dissimilar; distinct; separate.
diverge
::To extend from a common point in different directions; to tend from one point and recede from each other; to tend to spread apart; to turn aside or deviate (as from a given direction); -- opposed to <ant>converge</ant>.
diva
::A prima donna.
diurnal
::Relating to the daytime; belonging to the period of daylight, distinguished from the night; -- opposed to <ant>nocturnal</ant>
distract
::Separated; drawn asunder.
distraught
::Torn asunder; separated.
distrait
::Absent-minded; lost in thought; abstracted.
distort
::Distorted; misshapen.
distinctive
::Marking or expressing distinction or difference; distinguishing; characteristic; peculiar.
distinct
::Distinguished; having the difference marked; separated by a visible sign; marked out; specified.
distill
::To drop; to fall in drops; to trickle.
distend
::To become expanded or inflated; to swell.
distant
::Separated; having an intervening space; at a distance; away.
dissonance
::A mingling of discordant sounds; an inharmonious combination of sounds; discord.
dissuade
::To advise or exhort against; to try to persuade (one from a course).
dissolution
::The act of dissolving, sundering, or separating into component parts; separation.
dissimulate
::Feigning; simulating; pretending.
dissident
::No agreeing; dissenting; discordant; different.
dissertation
::A formal or elaborate argumentative discourse, oral or written; a disquisition; an essay; a discussion.
dissent
::The act of dissenting; difference of opinion; refusal to adopt something proposed; nonagreement, nonconcurrence, or disagreement.
disseminate
::to spread around widely; to sow broadcast or as seed; to scatter for growth and propagation, like seed; to spread abroad; to diffuse.
dissemble
::To conceal the real fact, motives, intention, or sentiments, under some pretense; to assume a false appearance; to act the hypocrite.
dissection
::The act of dissecting an animal or plant.
disquisition
::A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, any subject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with the arguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation.
disquietude
disputatious
::Inclined to dispute; apt to civil or controvert; characterized by dispute.
disport
::Play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness.
dispirited
::Depressed in spirits; deprived of cheer or enthusiasm; disheartened; discouraged; daunted.
disperse
::To separate; to go or move into different parts; to vanish
dispense
::Dispensation; exemption.
dispel
::To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clear away; to banish; to dissipate.
dispatch
::The act of sending a message or messenger in haste or on important business.
dispassionate
::Free from passion; not warped, prejudiced, swerved, or carried away by passion or feeling; judicial; calm; composed.
disparity
::Inequality; difference in age, rank, condition, or excellence; dissimilitude; -- followed by between, in, of, as to, etc.
disparate
::Unequal; dissimilar; separate.
disparage
::Inequality in marriage; marriage with an inferior.
dismiss
::Dismission.
dismember
::To tear limb from limb; to dilacerate; to disjoin member from member; to tear or cut in pieces; to break up.
crust
::The hard external coat or covering of anything; the hard exterior surface or outer shell; an incrustation.
mantle
::A loose garment to be worn over other garments; an enveloping robe; a cloak.
dismantle
::To strip or deprive of dress; to divest.
dislodge
::Dwelling apart; separation.
disjunction
::The act of disjoining; disunion; separation; a parting.
disjointed
::Separated at the joints; disconnected; incoherent.
disinterested
::Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage; free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling; not biased or prejudiced.
disinter
::To take out of the grave or tomb; to unbury; to exhume; to dig up.
disingenuous
::Not noble; unbecoming true honor or dignity; mean; unworthy.
disinclination
::The state of being disinclined; want of propensity, desire, or affection; slight aversion or dislike; indisposition.
disheveled
::Hanging in loose disorder; disarranged; in disarray; not made neat; -- used especially of hair or clothing.
dishearten
::To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress the spirits of; to deject.
disgruntle
::To dissatisfy; to disaffect; to anger.
disgorge
::To vomit forth what anything contains; to discharge; to make restitution.
disfigure
::Disfigurement; deformity.
disenfranchise
::To disfranchise; to deprive of the rights of a citizen.
disembark
::To go ashore out of a ship or boat; to leave a ship; to debark.
disdain
::A feeling of contempt and aversion; the regarding anything as unworthy of or beneath one; scorn.
discursive
::Passing from one thing to another; ranging over a wide field; roving; digressive; desultory.
brisk
::Full of liveliness and activity; characterized by quickness of motion or action; lively; spirited; quick.
discriminate
::Having the difference marked; distinguished by certain tokens.
discriminating
::Marking a difference; distinguishing.
discretion
::Disjunction; separation.
discrepancy
discredit
::The act of discrediting or disbelieving, or the state of being discredited or disbelieved.
discourse
::The power of the mind to reason or infer by running, as it were, from one fact or reason to another, and deriving a conclusion; an exercise or act of this power; reasoning; range of reasoning faculty.
discount
::A counting off or deduction made from a gross sum on any account whatever; an allowance upon an account, debt, demand, price asked, and the like; something taken or deducted.
discordant
::Disagreeing; incongruous; being at variance; clashing; opposing; not harmonious.
discord
::Want of concord or agreement; absence of unity or harmony in sentiment or action; variance leading to contention and strife; disagreement; -- applied to persons or to things, and to thoughts, feelings, or purposes.
disconcert
::Want of concert; disagreement.
discomfit
::Discomfited; overthrown.
discompose
::To disarrange; to interfere with; to disturb; to disorder; to unsettle; to break up.
discombobulated
::confused; upset.
disclose
::Disclosure.
discerning
::Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted.
discernible
::Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding
disburse
::To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund or treasury.
disband
::To become separated, broken up, dissolved, or scattered; especially, to quit military service by breaking up organization.
disavowal
::The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection and denial.
disarray
::Want of array or regular order; disorder; confusion.
disapprobation
::The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judged wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure.
disaffected
::Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal.
disabuse
::To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage from fallacy or deception; to set right; -- often used with of.
dirge
::A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral rites; a funeral hymn.
dire
::Ill-boding; portentous.
diorama
::A mode of scenic representation, invented by Daguerre and Bouton, in which a painting is seen from a distance through a large opening. By a combination of transparent and opaque painting, and of transmitted and reflected light, and by contrivances such as screens and shutters, much diversity of scenic effect is produced.
dull
::Slow of understanding; wanting readiness of apprehension; stupid; doltish; blockish.
dingy
::Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty.
maroon
::Having the color called maroon. See 4th maroon.
dinghy
weary
::Having the strength exhausted by toil or exertion; worn out in respect to strength, endurance, etc.; tired; fatigued.
diminution
::The act of diminishing, or of making or becoming less; state of being diminished; reduction in size, quantity, or degree; -- opposed to <ant>augmentation</ant> or <ant>increase</ant>.
dilute
::Diluted; thin; weak.
diligence
::The quality of being diligent; carefulness; careful attention; -- the opposite of negligence.
dilettante
::An admirer or lover of the fine arts; popularly, an amateur; especially, one who follows an art or a branch of knowledge, desultorily, or for amusement only.
dilemma
::An argument which presents an antagonist with two or more alternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whichever alternative he chooses.
dilate
::Extensive; expanded.
digression
::The act of digressing or deviating, esp. from the main subject of a discourse; hence, a part of a discourse deviating from its main design or subject.
diffuse
::Poured out; widely spread; not restrained; copious; full; esp., of style, opposed to <contr>concise</contr> or <contr>terse</contr>; verbose; prolix
diffidence
::The state of being diffident; distrust; want of confidence; doubt of the power, ability, or disposition of others.
die
::A small cube, marked on its faces with spots from one to six, and used in playing games by being shaken in a box and thrown from it. See dice.
didactic
::Fitted or intended to teach; conveying instruction; preceptive; instructive; teaching some moral lesson.
dictum
::An authoritative statement; a dogmatic saying; an apothegm.
dichotomy
::A cutting in two; a division.
diatribe
::A prolonged or exhaustive discussion; especially, an acrimonious or invective harangue; a strain of abusive or railing language; a philippic.
diaphanous
::Allowing light to pass through, as porcelain; translucent or transparent; pellucid; clear.
dialectical
diadem
::Originally, an ornamental head band or fillet, worn by Eastern monarchs as a badge of royalty; hence (later), also, a crown, in general.
diabolical
dexterous
::Ready and expert in the use of the body and limbs; skillful and active with the hands; handy; ready
devotee
::One who is wholly devoted; esp., one given wholly to religion; one who is superstitiously given to religious duties and ceremonies; a bigot.
deputize
::To appoint as one's deputy; to empower to act in one's stead; to appoint as one's substitute; to depute.
devolve
::To pass by transmission or succession; to be handed over or down; -- generally with on or upon, sometimes with to or into.
devoid
::Void; empty; vacant.
devise
::The act of giving or disposing of real estate by will; -- sometimes improperly applied to a bequest of personal estate.
devious
::Out of a straight line; winding; varying from directness.
deviate
::having behavior differing from that which is normal or expected, especially in an undesirable or socially disapproved manner.
detrimental
::Causing detriment; injurious; hurtful.
detraction
::A taking away or withdrawing.
detonation
::An explosion or sudden report made by the instantaneous decomposition or combustion of unstable substances.
deterrent
::Serving to deter.
determination
::The act of determining, or the state of being determined.
determinate
::Having defined limits; not uncertain or arbitrary; fixed; established; definite.
detain
::Detention.
detached
::Separate; unconnected, or imperfectly connected.
desultory
::Leaping or skipping about.
destitute
::Forsaken; not having in possession (something necessary, or desirable); deficient; lacking; devoid; -- often followed by of.
despot
::A master; a lord; especially, an absolute or irresponsible ruler or sovereign.
despondent
::Marked by despondence; given to despondence; low-spirited
demure
::Of sober or serious mien; composed and decorous in bearing; of modest look; staid; grave.
demotic
::Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common.
fiend
::An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wicked or cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil or a demon.
demoniacdemoniacal
demographic
::of or pertaining to demography.
demise
::Transmission by formal act or conveyance to an heir or successor; transference; especially, the transfer or transmission of the crown or royal authority to a successor.
demented
::Insane; mad; of unsound mind.
demeanor
::Management; treatment; conduct.
demean
::Management; treatment.
demagogue
::A leader of the rabble; one who attempts to control the multitude by specious or deceitful arts; an unprincipled and factious mob orator or political leader.
delve
::A place dug; a pit; a ditch; a den; a cave.
delusive
::Apt or fitted to delude; tending to mislead the mind; deceptive; beguiling; delusory
delusion
::The act of deluding; deception; a misleading of the mind.
deluge
::A washing away; an overflowing of the land by water; an inundation; a flood; specifically, The Deluge, the great flood in the days of Noah (Gen. vii.).
delude
::To lead from truth or into error; to mislead the mind or judgment of; to beguile; to impose on; to dupe; to make a fool of.
delta
::The fourth letter of the Greek alphabet (Δ δ), corresponding to d.
delirium
::A state in which the thoughts, expressions, and actions are wild, irregular, and incoherent; mental aberration; a roving or wandering of the mind, -- usually dependent on a fever or some other disease, and so distinguished from <contr>mania</contr>, or madness.
delineate
::Delineated; portrayed.
deliberate
::Weighing facts and arguments with a view to a choice or decision; carefully considering the probable consequences of a step; circumspect; slow in determining; -- applied to persons.
deleterious
::Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious
deleterious
::Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious
stoop
::Originally, a covered porch with seats, at a house door; the Dutch stoep as introduced by the Dutch into New York. Afterward, an out-of-door flight of stairs of from seven to fourteen steps, with platform and parapets, leading to an entrance door some distance above the street; the French perron. Hence, any porch, platform, entrance stairway, or small veranda, at a house door.
deign
::To think worthy; to vouchsafe; to condescend; - - followed by an infinitive.
deify
::To make a god of; to exalt to the rank of a deity; to enroll among the deities; to apotheosize.
dehydrate
::to lose water or moisture.
dishonor
::Lack of honor; disgrace; ignominy; shame; reproach.
degradation
::The act of reducing in rank, character, or reputation, or of abasing; a lowering from one's standing or rank in office or society; diminution.
degenerate
::Having become worse than one's kind, or one's former state; having declined in worth; having lost in goodness; deteriorated; degraded; unworthy; base; low.
defunct
::Having finished the course of life; dead; deceased.
deft
::Apt; fit; spruce; neat.
frock
::A loose outer garment; especially, a gown forming a part of European modern costume for women and children; also, a coarse shirtlike garment worn by some workmen over their other clothes; a smock frock.
defrock
::To divest of the frock, i. e. to deprive (a priest, minister, etc.) of official ecclesiastical authority; -- of church officials.
defray
::To pay or discharge; to serve in payment of; to provide for, as a charge, debt, expenses, costs, etc.
defoliate
::Deprived of leaves, as by their natural fall.
deflect
::To turn aside; to deviate from a right or a horizontal line, or from a proper position, course or direction; to swerve.
definitive
::Determinate; positive; final; conclusive; unconditional; express.
defile
::Any narrow passage or gorge in which troops can march only in a file, or with a narrow front; a long, narrow pass between hills, rocks, etc.
defiance
::The act of defying, putting in opposition, or provoking to combat; a challenge; a provocation; a summons to combat.
deference
::A yielding of judgment or preference from respect to the wishes or opinion of another; submission in opinion; regard; respect; complaisance.
defer
::To put off; to delay to act; to wait.
defect
::Want or absence of something necessary for completeness or perfection; deficiency; -- opposed to superfluity.
defection
::Act of abandoning a person or cause to which one is bound by allegiance or duty, or to which one has attached himself; desertion; failure in duty; a falling away; apostasy; backsliding.
defeatist
default
::A failing or failure; omission of that which ought to be done; neglect to do what duty or law requires.
defame
::Dishonor.
mar
::A small lake. See mere.
deface
::To destroy or mar the face or external appearance of; to disfigure; to injure, spoil, or mar, by effacing or obliterating important features or portions of
deducible
::Capable of being deduced or inferred; derivable by reasoning, as a result or consequence.
cry
::A loud utterance; especially, the inarticulate sound produced by one of the lower animals.
decrepit
::Broken down with age; wasted and enfeebled by the infirmities of old age; feeble; worn out.
decrepitude
::The broken state produced by decay and the infirmities of age; infirm old age.
decoy
::Anything intended to lead into a snare; a lure that deceives and misleads into danger, or into the power of an enemy; a bait.
decorous
::Suitable to a character, or to the time, place, and occasion; marked with decorum; becoming; proper; seemly; befitting
decorum
::Propriety of manner or conduct; grace arising from suitableness of speech and behavior to one's own character, or to the place and occasion; decency of conduct; seemliness; that which is seemly or suitable.
decomposition
::The act or process of resolving the constituent parts of a compound body or substance into its elementary parts; separation into constituent part; analysis; the decay or dissolution consequent on the removal or alteration of some of the ingredients of a compound; disintegration
decree
::An order from one having authority, deciding what is to be done by a subordinate; also, a determination by one having power, deciding what is to be done or to take place; edict, law; authoritative ru�� decision.
decipher
::To translate from secret characters or ciphers into intelligible terms.
decimate
::To take the tenth part of; to tithe.
deciduous
::Falling off, or subject to fall or be shed, at a certain season, or a certain stage or interval of growth, as leaves (except of evergreens) in autumn, or as parts of animals, such as hair, teeth, antlers, etc.; also, shedding leaves or parts at certain seasons, stages, or intervals
decelerate
::to reduce speed. Opposite of <ant>accelerate</ant>.
decapitate
::To cut off the head of; to behead.
decant
::To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb the sediment; or to pour from one vessel into another.
decadence
::A falling away; decay; deterioration; declension. “The old castle, where the family lived in their decadence.”
debut
::A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker.
debutante
::A young woman making her first appearance in society, especially one who is one of the honorees at a debutante cotillion. See cotillion{4}.
debunk
debonair
::Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; of good appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant.
bout
::As much of an action as is performed at one time; a going and returning, as of workmen in reaping, mowing, etc.; a turn; a round.
debilitate
::To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble.
seduce
::To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty in any manner; to entice to evil; to lead astray; to tempt and lead to iniquity; to corrupt.
debauch
::Excess in eating or drinking; intemperance; drunkenness; lewdness; debauchery.
kneel
::To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes with down.
debase
::To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase
cle
dearth
::Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine.
deadpan
deadlock
::A lock which is not self-latching, but requires a key to throw the bolt forward.
dawdle
::A dawdler.
dauntless
::Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless; intrepid.
daunt
::To overcome; to conquer.
smudge
::A suffocating smoke.
smear
::A fat, oily substance; oinment.
daub
::A viscous, sticky application; a spot smeared or daubed; a smear.
dappled
::Marked with spots of different shades of color; spotted; variegated.
dapper
::Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively.
dank
::Damp; moist; humid; wet.
dally
::To waste time in effeminate or voluptuous pleasures, or in idleness; to fool away time; to delay unnecessarily; to tarry; to trifle.
dais
::The high or principal table, at the end of a hall, at which the chief guests were seated; also, the chief seat at the high table.
dabble
::To play in water, as with the hands; to paddle or splash in mud or water.
cynosure
::The constellation of the Lesser Bear (Ursa Minor), to which, as containing the polar star, the eyes of mariners and travelers were often directed.
cynical
curtail
::The scroll termination of any architectural member, as of a step, etc.
cursory
::Running about; not stationary.
cursive
::Running; flowing.
curmudgeon
::An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl.
curator
::One who has the care and superintendence of anything, as of a museum; a custodian; a keeper.
cupidity
::A passionate desire; love.
cumulative
::Composed of parts in a heap; forming a mass; aggregated.
cumbersome
::Burdensome or hindering, as a weight or drag; embarrassing; vexatious; cumbrous.
culvert
::A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road, railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge.
culprit
::One accused of, or arraigned for, a crime, as before a judge.
culpable
::Deserving censure; worthy of blame; faulty; immoral; criminal.
culmination
::The attainment of the highest point of altitude reached by a heavenly body; passage across the meridian; transit.
cull
::A cully; a dupe; a gull. See cully.
culinary
::Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used in kitchens.
cuisine
::The kitchen or cooking department.
compartment
::One of the parts into which an inclosed portion of space is divided, as by partitions, or lines.
cubicle
::A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from a large dormitory.
cryptic
::Hidden; secret; occult.
crypt
::A vault wholly or partly under ground; especially, a vault under a church, whether used for burial purposes or for a subterranean chapel or oratory.
crux
::Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain.
crotchety
::Given to crotchets; subject to whims.
crone
::An old ewe.
criteria
cringe
::Servile civility; fawning; a shrinking or bowing, as in fear or servility.
crevice
::A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or the separation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent.
crest
::A tuft, or other excrescence or natural ornament, growing on an animal's head; the comb of a cock; the swelling on the head of a serpent; the lengthened feathers of the crown or nape of bird, etc.
crestfallen
::With hanging head; hence, dispirited; dejected; cowed.
overture
::An opening or aperture; a recess; a chamber.
far-fetched
::Brought from far, or from a remote place.
crescendo
::With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with gradually increasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for the performance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the word on the score.
creed
::A definite summary of what is believed; esp., a summary of the articles of Christian faith; a confession of faith for public use; esp., one which is brief and comprehensive.
credulity
::Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slight evidence.
credo
::The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church.
credence
::Reliance of the mind on evidence of facts derived from other sources than personal knowledge; belief; credit; confidence.
craven
::Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless.
crass
::Gross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined.
peevish
::Habitually fretful; easily vexed or fretted; hard to please; apt to complain; querulous; petulant.
crabbed
::Characterized by or manifesting, sourness, peevishness, or moroseness; harsh; cross; cynical; -- applied to feelings, disposition, or manners.
cozen
::To deceive; to cheat; to act deceitfully.
coy
::Quiet; still.
cower
::To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to quail; to sink through fear.
cow
::The mature female of bovine animals.
covetous
::Very desirous; eager to obtain; -- used in a good sense.
covert
::Covered over; private; hid; secret; disguised.
bargain
::An agreement between parties concerning the sale of property; or a contract by which one party binds himself to transfer the right to some property for a consideration, and the other party binds himself to receive the property and pay the consideration.
covenant
::A mutual agreement of two or more persons or parties, or one of the stipulations in such an agreement.
courier
::A messenger sent with haste to convey letters or dispatches, usually on public business.
couple
::That which joins or links two things together; a bond or tie; a coupler.
coup
::A sudden stroke delivered with promptness and force; -- used also in various ways to convey the idea of an unexpected, clever, and successful tactic or stratagem.
counterpart
::A part corresponding to another part; anything which answers, or corresponds, to another; a copy; a duplicate; a facsimile.
countermand
::A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command.
countenance
::Appearance or expression of the face; look; aspect; mien.
coterie
::A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social, literary, or other purposes; a clique.
crinkle
::A winding or turn; wrinkle; sinuosity.
wrinkle
::A winkle.
corrugated
::shaped into parallel folds alternately grooved and ridged.
corrode
::To have corrosive action; to be subject to corrosion.
corroborate
::Corroborated.
correlate
::One who, or that which, stands in a reciprocal relation to something else, as father to son; a correlative.
correlation
::Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism of relation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving place to, one another, under certain conditions.
corpus
::A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.
corpulent
::Very fat; obese.
corporeal
::Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material body or substance; material; -- opposed to <contr>spiritual</contr> or <contr>immaterial</contr>.
corollary
::That which is given beyond what is actually due, as a garland of flowers in addition to wages; surplus; something added or superfluous.
cornucopia
::The horn of plenty, from which fruits and flowers are represented as issuing. It is an emblem of abundance.
cornice
::Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection which crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed.
cordon
::A cord or ribbon bestowed or borne as a badge of honor; a broad ribbon, usually worn after the manner of a baldric, constituting a mark of a very high grade in an honorary order. Cf. grand cordon.
cordial
::Proceeding from the heart.
flirt
::Pert; wanton.
coquette
::A vain, trifling woman, who endeavors to attract admiration from a desire to gratify vanity; a flirt; -- formerly sometimes applied also to men.
copious
::Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful.
convulsion
::An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of the muscular parts of an animal body.
convoluted
::Having convolutions.
convoke
::To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons.
convivial
::Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating and drinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial.
conviction
::The act of convicting; the act of proving, finding, or adjudging, guilty of an offense.
conveyance
::The act of conveying, carrying, or transporting; carriage.
convex
::Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave.
convert
::A person who is converted from one opinion or practice to another; a person who is won over to, or heartily embraces, a creed, religious system, or party, in which he has not previously believed; especially, one who turns from the controlling power of sin to that of holiness, or from unbelief to Christianity.
conversant
::Having frequent or customary intercourse; familiary associated; intimately acquainted.
conventional
::Formed by agreement or compact; stipulated.
convention
::The act of coming together; the state of being together; union; coalition.
convene
::To come together; to meet; to unite.
conundrum
::A kind of riddle based upon some fanciful or fantastic resemblance between things quite unlike; a puzzling question, of which the answer is or involves a pun.
bruise
::An injury to the flesh of animals, or to plants, fruit, etc., with a blunt or heavy instrument, or by collision with some other body; a contusion.
contusion
::The act or process of beating, bruising, or pounding; the state of being beaten or bruised.
controvert
::To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose by reasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; to debate.
contrivance
::The act or faculty of contriving, inventing, devising, or planning.
contrived
::To make devices; to form designs; to plan; to scheme; to plot.
contrite
::Thoroughly bruised or broken.
contravene
::To meet in the way of opposition; to come into conflict with; to oppose; to contradict; to obstruct the operation of; to defeat.
contraband
::Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden.
contingent
::Possible, or liable, but not certain, to occur; incidental; casual.
contiguous
::In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring; adjoining.
context
::Knit or woven together; close; firm.
contest
::Earnest dispute; strife in argument; controversy; debate; altercation.
boost
::A push from behind, as to one who is endeavoring to climb; help.
thesis
::A position or proposition which a person advances and offers to maintain, or which is actually maintained by argument.
congruent
::Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.
conglomerate
::Gathered into a ball or a mass; collected together; concentrated.
conglomeration
::The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of being thus collected; collection; accumulation.
congenital
::Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one from birth; born with one; connate; constitutional; natural. See connate and native.
congeal
::To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; to become solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to be chilled.
confound
::To mingle and blend, so that different elements can not be distinguished; to confuse.
conformity
::Correspondence in form, manner, or character; resemblance; agreement; congruity; -- followed by to, with, or between.
confluence
::The act of flowing together; the meeting or junction of two or more streams; the place of meeting.
conflagration
::A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; a general burning.
confiscate
::Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use; forfeited.
confine
::Common boundary; border; limit; -- used chiefly in the plural.
confidential
::Enjoying, or treated with, confidence; trusted in; trustworthy.
confidence
::The act of confiding, trusting, or putting faith in; trust; reliance; belief; -- formerly followed by of, now commonly by in.
confidence
::The act of confiding, trusting, or putting faith in; trust; reliance; belief; -- formerly followed by of, now commonly by in.
confide
::To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usually followed by in.
confidantconfidante
conduit
::A pipe, canal, channel, or passage for conveying water or fluid.
conducive
::Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.
condone
::To pardon; to forgive.
condole
::To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; -- followed by with.
condiments
condign
::Worthy; suitable; deserving; fit.
condescend
::To stoop or descend; to let one's self down; to submit; to waive the privilege of rank or dignity; to accommodate one's self to an inferior.
concurrent
::Acting in conjunction; agreeing in the same act or opinion; contributing to the same event or effect; coöperating.
concur
::To run together; to meet.
concordat
::A compact, covenant, or agreement concerning anything.
concord
::A state of agreement; harmony; union.
concomitant
::Accompanying; conjoined; attending.
concoct
::To digest; to convert into nourishment by the organs of nutrition.
conclusive
::Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing; putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, a conclusion or decision.
conclave
::The set of apartments within which the cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church are continuously secluded while engaged in choosing a pope.
concise
::Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted; -- used of style in writing or speaking.
conciliatory
::Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating.
concession
::The act of conceding or yielding; usually implying a demand, claim, or request, and thus distinguished from giving, which is voluntary or spontaneous.
concerted
::Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on.
conception
::The act of conceiving in the womb; the initiation of an embryonic animal life.
concentric
::Having a common center, as circles of different size, one within another.
vain
::Having no real substance, value, or importance; empty; void; worthless; unsatisfying.
conceit
::That which is conceived, imagined, or formed in the mind; idea; thought; image; conception.
concede
::To yield or make concession.
concave
::Hollow and curved or rounded; vaulted; -- said of the interior of a curved surface or line, as of the curve of the of the inner surface of an eggshell, in opposition to <contr>convex</contr>.
concatenate
::To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as things depending on one another.
reckon
::To make an enumeration or computation; to engage in numbering or computing.
compute
::Computation.
compunction
::A pricking; stimulation.
compromise
::A mutual agreement to refer matters in dispute to the decision of arbitrators.
comprise
::To comprehend; to include.
compress
::A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to cover the dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, to make due pressure on any part.
comprehensive
::Including much; comprising many things; having a wide scope or a full view.
compound
::Composed of two or more elements, ingredients, parts; produced by the union of several ingredients, parts, or things; composite.
composure
::The act of composing, or that which is composed; a composition.
bearing
::The manner in which one bears or conducts one's self; mien; behavior; carriage.
deport
::Behavior; carriage; demeanor; deportment.
comport
::Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment.
component
::Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting; constituent.
complicity
::The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.
compliant
::Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive.
compliance
::The act of complying; a yielding; as to a desire, demand, or proposal; concession; submission.
complementary
::Serving to fill out or to complete.
complement
::That which fills up or completes; the quantity or number required to fill a thing or make it complete.
complaisant
::Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant.
smug
::Studiously neat or nice, especially in dress; spruce; affectedly precise; smooth and prim.
complacency
compile
::To put together; to construct; to build.
compilation
::The act or process of compiling or gathering together from various sources.
compensatory
::Serving for compensation; making amends.
compendium
::A brief compilation or composition, containing the principal heads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; an abridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.
compulsive
::Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.
compulsory
::Having the power of compulsion; constraining.
compulsion
::The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the act of driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint; subjection to force.
compelling
::To make one yield or submit.
compatible
::Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; not repugnant; -- usually followed by with.
compact
::An agreement between parties; a covenant or contract.
commune
::Communion; sympathetic intercourse or conversation between friends.
communal
::Pertaining to a commune.
commodious
::Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities; serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable.
commiserate
::To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.
commensurate
::Having a common measure; commensurable; reducible to a common measure.
commemorate
::To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event, by some act of respect or affection, intended to preserve the remembrance of the person or event.
commemorative
::Tending or intended to commemorate.
draught
::Used for drawing vehicles, loads, etc.
draft
::Pertaining to, or used for, drawing or pulling (as vehicles, loads, etc.). Same as draught.
commandeer
::To compel to perform military service; to seize for military purposes; -- orig. used of the Boers.
comity
::Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals; friendly civility.
deserts
::Of or pertaining to a desert; forsaken; without life or cultivation; unproductive; waste; barren; wild; desolate; solitary.
comeuppance
::An unpleasant experience a person endures, which is viewed by others as a just retribution for bad behavior; just deserts.
comestible
::Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.
homely
::Belonging to, or having the characteristics of, home; domestic; familiar; intimate.
comely
::Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good-looking; handsome.
combustible
::Capable of taking fire and burning; apt to catch fire; inflammable.
coma
::A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or impossible to rouse a person. See carus.
comatose
::Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic.
colossus
::A statue of gigantic size. The name was especially applied to certain famous statues in antiquity, as the Colossus of Nero in Rome, the Colossus of Apollo at Rhodes.
colossal
::Of enormous size; gigantic; huge.
collusion
::A secret agreement and cooperation for a fraudulent or deceitful purpose; a playing into each other's hands; deceit; fraud; cunning.
colloquy
::Mutual discourse of two or more persons; conference; conversation.
colloquial
::Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common and familiar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal.
collation
::The act of collating or comparing; a comparison of one copy er thing (as of a book, or manuscript) with another of a like kind; comparison, in general.
collateral
::Coming from, being on, or directed toward, the side.
collate
::To place in a benefice, when the person placing is both the patron and the ordinary.
scrappy
::Consisting of scraps; fragmentary; lacking unity or consistency.
scraps
::Something scraped off; hence, a small piece; a bit; a fragment; a detached, incomplete portion.
scrap
::Something scraped off; hence, a small piece; a bit; a fragment; a detached, incomplete portion.
collage
::any picture made by sticking together pieces of paper or photographs, especially in unusual or surprising ways.
collaborate
::to work together with another toward a common goal, especially in an intellectual endeavor.
coincidence
::The condition of occupying the same place in space
coin
::A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wedge. See coigne, and quoin.
coiffure
::A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair.
cohorts
cohesion
::The act or state of sticking together; close union.
cohere
::To stick together; to cleave; to be united; to hold fast, as parts of the same mass.
cohabit
::To inhabit or reside in company, or in the same place or country.
cognizance
::Apprehension by the understanding; perception; observation.
cognitive
::Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding.
cognate
::Allied by blood; kindred by birth; specifically (Law), related on the mother's side.
cogitate
::To engage in continuous thought; to think.
cogent
::Compelling, in a physical sense; powerful.
coeval
::Of the same age; existing during the same period of time, especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.
coercion
::The act or process of coercing.
codify
::To reduce to a code, as laws.
codicil
::A clause added to a will.
coda
::A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a composition.
coalition
::The act of coalescing; union into a body or mass, as of separate bodies or parts.
coalesce
::To grow together; to unite by growth into one body.
pudding
::A species of food of a soft or moderately hard consistence, variously made, but often a compound of flour or meal, with milk and eggs, etc.
clot
::A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated mass, as of blood; a coagulum.
coagulate
::Coagulated.
cloying
::To fill or choke up; to stop up; to clog.
clout
::A cloth; a piece of cloth or leather; a patch; a rag.
cloister
::An inclosed place.
clique
::A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a bad sense.
clime
::A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See climate.
climactic
::Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, a climax, or ascending series.
clientele
::The condition or position of a client; clientship.
bromide
::A compound of bromine with a positive radical.
clemency
::Disposition to forgive and spare, as offenders; mildness of temper; gentleness; tenderness; mercy.
cleft
::imp. & p. p. from cleave.
cleave
::To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.
scrimmage
::Formerly, a skirmish; now, a general row or confused fight or struggle.
clavicle
::The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, or shoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. In man each clavicle is shaped like the letter �, and is situated just above the first rib on either side of the neck. In birds the two clavicles are united ventrally, forming the merrythought, or wishbone.
claustrophobia
clarion
::A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.
clap
::A loud noise made by sudden collision; a bang.
clapper
::A person who claps.
clangor
::A sharp, harsh, ringing sound.
chaperon
::A hood; especially, an ornamental or an official hood.
clamor
::A great outcry or vociferation; loud and continued shouting or exclamation from many people.
clamber
::The act of clambering.
hindsight
::understanding the nature of an event after it has happened.
civil
::Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state.
cite
::To call upon officially or authoritatively to appear, as before a court; to summon.
citadel
::A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city and fortifications, and intended as a final point of defense.
cistern
::An artificial reservoir or tank for holding water, beer, or other liquids.
circumvent
::To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; to decieve; to delude; to get around.
circumspect
::Attentive to all the circumstances of a case or the probable consequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.
circumscribe
::to write or engrave around.
circumlocution
::The use of many words to express an idea that might be expressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrase.
circuit
::The act of moving or revolving around, or as in a circle or orbit; a revolution.
circuitous
::Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect.
circlet
::A little circle; esp., an ornament for the person, having the form of a circle; that which encircles, as a ring, a bracelet, or a headband.
cipher
::Of the nature of a cipher; of no weight or influence.
ciliated
churlish
::Like a churl; rude; cross-grained; ungracious; surly; illiberal; niggardly.
chronicle
::An historical register or account of facts or events disposed in the order of time.
chronic
::Relating to time; according to time.
chuckle
::A short, suppressed laugh; the expression of satisfaction, exultation, or derision.
chortle
::A word coined by Lewis Carroll (Charles L. Dodgson), and usually explained as a combination of chuckle and snort.
chore
::A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a household or farm, either within or without doors.
choreography
::The art of representing dancing by signs, as music is represented by notes; -- also called choregraphy.
choleric
::Abounding with, or producing choler, or bile.
chivalrous
::Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic; gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.
chip
::A piece of wood, stone, or other substance, separated by an ax, chisel, or cutting instrument.
chisel
::A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; -- usually driven by a mallet or hammer.
chimerical
::Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainly conceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except in thought.
chide
::A continuous noise or murmur.
chicanery
::Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure the truth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry.
cherubic
::Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic.
checkeredchequered
check
::Checkered; designed in checks.
chauvinist
chastise
::To inflict pain upon, by means of stripes, or in any other manner, for the purpose of punishment or reformation; to punish, as with stripes.
chasten
::To correct by punishment; to inflict pain upon the purpose of reclaiming; to discipline.
chaste
::Pure from unlawful sexual intercourse; virtuous; continent.
chassis
::A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which the carriage of a barbette or casemate gun moves backward and forward. [See gun carriage.]
chasm
::A deep opening made by disruption, as a breach in the earth or a rock; a yawning abyss; a cleft; a fissure.
chase
::Vehement pursuit for the purpose of killing or capturing, as of an enemy, or game; an earnest seeking after any object greatly desired; the act or habit of hunting; a hunt.
chary
::Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, or reckless.
charlatan
::One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantable pretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.
charisma
chaotic
::Resembling chaos; confused.
champion
::One who engages in any contest; especially one who in ancient times contended in single combat in behalf of another's honor or rights; or one who now acts or speaks in behalf of a person or a cause; a defender; an advocate; a hero.
chameleon
::A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamæleo, of several species, found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with fine granulations; it has eyes which can move separately, the tail is prehensile, and the body is much compressed laterally, giving it a high back. It is remarkable for its ability to change the color of its skin to blend with its surroundings.
chalice
::A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper.
chagrin
::Chagrined.
chaffing
::The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule; raillery; banter.
chaff
::The glumes or husks of grains and grasses separated from the seed by threshing and winnowing, etc.
chafe
::Heat excited by friction.
cession
::A yielding to physical force.
cessation
::A ceasing or discontinuance, as of action, whether temporary or final; a stop.
certitude
::Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty.
unceremonious
ceremonious
::Consisting of outward forms and rites; ceremonial. [In this sense ceremonial is now preferred.]
cerebration
::Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.
centurion
::A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Roman army; a captain of a century.
centripetal
::Tending, or causing, to approach the center.
centrifuge
::an apparatus having containers for liquids arrayed around a central pivot and rotated at a high speed, thus generating centrifugal force on the liquid, and separating substances (such as particles of solid or globules of an immiscible liquid) mixed together in suspension within the liquid. Suspensions which would settle only very slowly or not at all under gravity can be made to separate quickly in such a device.
centrifugal
::Tending, or causing, to recede from the center.
centigrade
::Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred divisions or equal parts.
centaur
::A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.
censure
::Judgment either favorable or unfavorable; opinion.
censorious
::Addicted to censure; apt to blame or condemn; severe in making remarks on others, or on their writings or manners.
censor
::One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of inspector of morals and conduct.
celibate
::Unmarried; single.
afterlife
hereafter
::In time to come; in some future time or state.
celestial
::Belonging to the aërial regions, or visible heavens.
celerity
::Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness.
cede
::To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign.
cavil
::A captious or frivolous objection.
cavalier
::offhand; unceremonious; gay; easy; frank. Opposed to <ant>serious</ant>.
cavalcade
::A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous march of horsemen by way of parade.
cauterize
::To burn or sear with a cautery or caustic.
caustic
::Capable of destroying the texture of anything or eating away its substance by chemical action; burning; corrosive; searing.
causal
::Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative.
caulkcalk
caucus
::A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding measures of party policy; a political primary meeting.
catholic
::Universal or general.
cathartic
::Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool; purgative.
catharsis
::A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of the mouth, bowels, etc.
qualify
::To be or become qualified; to be fit, as for an office or employment.
categorical
::Of or pertaining to a category.
catechism
::A form of instruction by means of questions and answers.
catcall
::A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument for making such a noise.
catastrophe
::An event producing a subversion of the order or system of things; a final event, usually of a calamitous or disastrous nature; hence, sudden calamity; great misfortune.
catastrophe
::An event producing a subversion of the order or system of things; a final event, usually of a calamitous or disastrous nature; hence, sudden calamity; great misfortune.
cataract
::A great fall of water over a precipice; a large waterfall.
hurl
::The act of hurling or throwing with violence; a cast; a fling.
catapult
::An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by the ancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.
catalyst
::a substance that initiates or accelerates a chemical reaction without itself being affected.
cataclysm
::An extensive overflow or sweeping flood of water; a deluge.
casual
::Happening or coming to pass without design, and without being foreseen or expected; accidental; fortuitous; coming by chance.
casualty
::That which comes without design or without being foreseen; contingency.
castigation
::Corrective punishment; chastisement; reproof; pungent criticism.
caste
::One of the hereditary classes into which the Hindu are divided according to the laws of Brahmanism.
cascade
::A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; a waterfall less than a cataract.
cartographer
::One who makes charts or maps.
carrion
::Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding on carrion.
carping
::Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See captious.
carousal
::A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse.
carnivorous
::Eating or feeding on flesh. The term is applied: (a) to animals which naturally seek flesh for food, as the tiger, dog, etc.; (b) to plants which are supposed to absorb animal food; (c) to substances which destroy animal tissue, as caustics.
carnal
::Of or pertaining to the body or its appetites; animal; fleshly; sensual; given to sensual indulgence; lustful; human or worldly as opposed to <contr>spiritual</contr>.
carnage
::Flesh of slain animals or men.
carillon
::A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or by finger keys.
caricature
::An exaggeration, or distortion by exaggeration, of parts or characteristics, as in a picture.
sway
::The act of swaying; a swaying motion; the swing or sweep of a weapon.
career
::A race course: the ground run over.
careen
::To incline to one side, or lie over, as a ship when sailing on a wind; to be off the keel.
cardiologist
cardinal
::Of fundamental importance; preëminent; superior; chief; principal.
carcinogenic
::Causing or tending to cause cancer.
caratkarat
carapace
::The thick shell or shield which covers the back of the tortoise, or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.
captious
::Apt to catch at faults; disposed to find fault or to cavil; eager to object; difficult to please.
caption
::A caviling; a sophism.
caprice
::An abrupt change in feeling, opinion, or action, proceeding from some whim or fancy; a freak; a notion.
capitulate
::To settle or draw up the heads or terms of an agreement, as in chapters or articles; to agree.
capillary
::Resembling a hair; fine; minute; very slender; having minute tubes or interspaces; having very small bore.
capacity
::The power of receiving or containing; extent of room or space; passive power; -- used in reference to physical things.
capacious
::Having capacity; able to contain much; large; roomy; spacious; extended; broad.
canvass
::Close inspection; careful review for verification.
canto
::One of the chief divisions of a long poem; a book.
canter
::A moderate and easy gallop adapted to pleasure riding.
cantata
::A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses, solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner; originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of both recitative and melody.
cantankerous
::Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious.
cant
::Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar.
cant
::Of the nature of cant; affected; vulgar.
canny
::Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.
ulcer
::A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of the tissues.
canine
::Of or pertaining to the family Canidæ, or dogs and wolves; having the nature or qualities of a dog; like that or those of a dog.
candor
::Whiteness; brightness; (as applied to moral conditions) usullied purity; innocence.
canard
::An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public.
cameo
::A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like.
calumny
::False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation; slander; detraction.
callow
::Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.
callus
callous
::Hardened; indurated.
calligraphy
::Fair or elegant penmanship.
caliber
::The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm will carry.
caldroncauldron
calculated
::Worked out by calculation; ; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation.
calamity
::Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to communities or individuals.
coax
::A simpleton; a dupe.
cajole
::To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.
cadence
::The act or state of declining or sinking.
cadaverous
::Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale; ghastly.
cadaver
::A dead human body; a corpse.
cacophonous
cache
::A hole in the ground, or other hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry.
cabal
::Tradition; occult doctrine. See cabala.
plump
::Well rounded or filled out; full; fleshy; fat
buxom
::Yielding; pliable or compliant; ready to obey; obedient; tractable; docile; meek; humble.
prop
::A shell, used as a die. See props.
buttress
::A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust of an arch, or for ornament and symmetry.
burnish
::The effect of burnishing; gloss; brightness; luster.
burlesque
::Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images, or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it, as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular; ironical.
bureaucracy
::A system of carrying on the business of government by means of departments or bureaus, each under the control of a chief, in contradiction to a system in which the officers of government have an associated authority and responsibility; also, government conducted on this system.
buoyant
::Having the quality of rising or floating in a fluid; tending to rise or float.
botch
::A swelling on the skin; a large ulcerous affection; a boil; an eruptive disease.
bungle
::A clumsy or awkward performance; a botch; a gross blunder.
bulwark
::A rampart; a fortification; a bastion or outwork.
bugaboo
::Something frightful, as a specter; anything imaginary that causes needless fright; something used to excite needless fear; also, something really dangerous, or an imaginary monster, used to frighten children, etc.
clown
::A man of coarse nature and manners; an awkward fellow; an ill-bred person; a boor.
buffoonery
::The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculous pranks, vulgar tricks and postures.
slap
::With a sudden and violent blow; hence, quickly; instantly; directly.
buffet
::A cupboard or set of shelves, either movable or fixed at one side of a room, for the display of plate, china, etc., a sideboard.
bucolic
::Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.
buccaneer
::A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especially to the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniards in America in the 17th and 18th centuries.
brusque
::Rough and prompt in manner; blunt; abrupt; bluff.
brunt
::The heat, or utmost violence, of an onset; the strength or greatest fury of any contention.
skim
::Contraction of skimming and skimmed.
graze
::The act of grazing; the cropping of grass.
browse
::The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for the food of cattle and other animals; green food.
browbeat
::To depress or bear down with haughty, stern looks, or with arrogant speech and dogmatic assertions; to abash or disconcert by impudent or abusive words or looks; to bully.
brook
::A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek.
clasp
::An adjustable catch, bent plate, or hook, for holding together two objects or the parts of anything, as the ends of a belt, the covers of a book, etc.
brooch
::An ornament, in various forms, with a tongue, pin, or loop for attaching it to a garment; now worn at the breast by women; a breastpin. Formerly worn by men on the hat.
brochure
::A printed and stitched book containing only a few leaves; a pamphlet; a single sheet folded to make four pages.
brocade
::Silk stuff, woven with gold and silver threads, or ornamented with raised flowers, foliage, etc.; -- also applied to other stuffs thus wrought and enriched.
broach
::A spit.
bristle
::A short, stiff, coarse hair, as on the back of swine.
bristling
::A short, stiff, coarse hair, as on the back of swine.
tawny
::Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons who are sunburnt.
brindled
::Having dark streaks or spots on a gray or tawny ground; brinded.
brevity
::Shortness of duration; briefness of time.
breadth
::Distance from side to side of any surface or thing; measure across, or at right angles to the length; width.
breach
::The act of breaking, in a figurative sense.
brawl
::A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult.
brazen
::Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, brass.
sturdy
::Foolishly obstinate or resolute; stubborn; unrelenting; unfeeling; stern.
brawny
::Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong.
brawn
::A muscle; flesh.
bravado
::Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.
brandish
::A flourish, as with a weapon, whip, etc.
braggart
::Boastful.
brag
::Brisk; full of spirits; boasting; pretentious; conceited.
braggadocio
::A braggart; a boaster; a swaggerer.
blanch
::Ore, not in masses, but mixed with other minerals.
bizarre
::Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant; grotesque.
bivouac
::The watch of a whole army by night, when in danger of surprise or attack.
surge
::A spring; a fountain.
swell
::Having the characteristics of a person of rank and importance; showy; dandified; distinguished
billow
::A great wave or surge of the sea or other water, caused usually by violent wind.
billowing
::rising in billows.
bilk
::A thwarting an adversary in cribbage by spoiling his score; a balk.
bilious
::Of or pertaining to the bile.
intolerant
::Not enduring; not able to endure.
bigot
::Bigoted.
bigotry
::The state of mind of a bigot; obstinate and unreasoning attachment of one's own belief and opinions, with narrow-minded intolerance of beliefs opposed to them.
bifurcated
::Two-pronged; forked.
biennial
::Happening, or taking place, once in two years.
bicker
::A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub.
bicameral
::Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislative branches.
bevy
::A company; an assembly or collection of persons, especially of ladies.
betroth
::To contract to any one for a marriage; to engage or promise in order to marriage; to affiance; -- used esp. of a woman.
betray
::To deliver into the hands of an enemy by treachery or fraud, in violation of trust; to give up treacherously or faithlessly.
token
::Something intended or supposed to represent or indicate another thing or an event; a sign; a symbol.
betoken
::To signify by some visible object; to show by signs or tokens.
bestow
::To lay up in store; to deposit for safe keeping; to stow; to place; to put.
bestial
::Belonging to a beast, or to the class of beasts.
besmirch
::To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence: To dishonor; to sully.
besiege
::To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose of compelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset.
hem
::An utterance or sound of the voice, hem or hm, often indicative of hesitation or doubt, sometimes used to call attention.
beset
::To set or stud (anything) with ornaments or prominent objects.
beseech
::Solicitation; supplication.
berserk
::frenzied; crazed; usually in predicate position.
bereft
::imp. & p. p. of bereave.
bereaved
::mourning due to the death of a loved one.
bereavement
::The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of a relative by death.
berate
::To rate or chide vehemently; to scold.
bequeath
::To give or leave by will; to give by testament; -- said especially of personal property.
bent
::imp. & p. p. of bend.
benison
::Blessing; beatitude; benediction.
benign
::Of a kind or gentle disposition; gracious; generous; favorable; benignant.
benevolent
::Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting love to mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness; disposed to give to good objects; kind; charitable.
benefit
::An act of kindness; a favor conferred.
beneficiary
::Holding some office or valuable possession, in subordination to another; holding under a feudal or other superior; having a dependent and secondary possession.
beneficial
::Conferring benefits; useful; profitable; helpful; advantageous; serviceable; contributing to a valuable end; -- followed by to.
beneficent
::Doing or producing good; performing acts of kindness and charity; characterized by beneficence.
benefactor
::One who confers a benefit or benefits.
benediction
::The act of blessing.
bemused
::To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor.
bemoan
::To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.
belligerent
::Waging war; carrying on war.
bellicose
::Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious.
belittle
::To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a depreciatory or contemptuous way.
belie
::To show to be false; to convict of, or charge with, falsehood.
beleaguer
::To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege; to blockade.
belated
::Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night; benighted.
belabor
::To ply diligently; to work carefully upon.
behoovebehove
beholden
::Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted.
behemoth
::An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15-24.
beguile
::To delude by guile, artifice, or craft; to deceive or impose on, as by a false statement; to lure.
grudge
::Sullen malice or malevolence; cherished malice, enmity, or dislike; ill will; an old cause of hatred or quarrel.
begrudge
::To grudge; to envy the possession of.
beget
::To procreate, as a father or sire; to generate; -- commonly said of the father.
fuddle
::To drink to excess.
befuddle
::To becloud and confuse, as with liquor.
beeline
::The shortest line from one place to another, like that of a bee to its hive when loaded with honey; an air line.
bedraggle
::To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, are suffered to drag in dust, mud, etc.
finery
::Fineness; beauty.
bedizen
::To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste.
mystic
::Remote from or beyond human comprehension; baffling human understanding; unknowable; obscure; mysterious.
beatitude
::Felicity of the highest kind; consummate bliss.
bliss
::Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.
bliss
::Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.
beatific
::Having the power to impart or complete blissful enjoyment; blissful.
bawdy
::Dirty; foul; -- said of clothes.
bauble
::A trifling piece of finery; a gewgaw; that which is gay and showy without real value; a cheap, showy plaything.
bate
::imp. of bite.
bastion
::A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of a fortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and so constructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacent curtain, or wall which extends from one bastion to another. Two adjacent bastions are connected by the curtain, which joins the flank of one with the adjacent flank of the other. The distance between the flanks of a bastion is called the gorge. A lunette is a detached bastion. See ravelin.
luxuriate
::To grow exuberantly; to grow to superfluous abundance.
bask
::To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.
barterer
::One who barters.
solicitor
::One who solicits.
barrister
::Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, and undertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from an attorney or solicitor. See attorney.
barrage
::An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or watercourse to increase the depth of water.
baroque
::of, pertaining to, or characteristic of, an artistic style common in the 17th century, characterized by the use of complex and elaborate ornamentation, curved rather than straight lines, and, in music a high degree of embellishment.
unregenerate
::Not regenerated; not renewed in heart; remaining or being at enmity with God.
barefaced
::With the face uncovered; not masked.
bard
::A professional poet and singer, as among the ancient Celts, whose occupation was to compose and sing verses in honor of the heroic achievements of princes and brave men.
barb
::Beard, or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it.
bantering
::The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-humored raillery; pleasantry.
bane
::That which destroys life, esp. poison of a deadly quality.
bandy
::Bent; crooked; curved laterally, esp. with the convex side outward.
banal
::Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.
balmy
::Having the qualities of balm; odoriferous; aromatic; assuaging; soothing; refreshing; mild.
pang
::A paroxysm of extreme pain or anguish; a sudden and transitory agony; a throe.
balm
::An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.
ballast
::Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold to sink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.
balk
::A ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.
baleful
::Full of deadly or pernicious influence; destructive.
bait
::Any substance, esp. food, used in catching fish, or other animals, by alluring them to a hook, snare, inclosure, or net.
baffle
::A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture.
badinage
::Playful raillery; banter.
badger
::An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another.
Bacchanalia
::A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.
bacchanal
::Relating to Bacchus or his festival.
bacchanalian
::Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness.
babble
::Idle talk; senseless prattle; gabble; twaddle.
azure
::Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless.
axiom
::A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as, “The whole is greater than a part;” “A thing can not, at the same time, be and not be.”
awry
::Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted; obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision.
awl
::A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad awl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.
awful
::Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible.
awe
::Dread; great fear mingled with respect.
avuncular
::Of or pertaining to an uncle.
avow
::Avowal.
avocation
::A calling away; a diversion.
avid
::Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy.
aviary
::A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house.
avert
::To turn away.
aversion
::A turning away.
averse
::Turned away or backward.
aver
::A work horse, or working ox.
avenge
::Vengeance; revenge.
avarice
::An excessive or inordinate desire of gain; greediness for wealth; covetousness; cupidity.
avalanche
::A large mass or body of snow and ice sliding swiftly down a mountain side, or falling down a precipice.
auxiliary
::Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary; as auxiliary troops.
autopsy
::Personal observation or examination; seeing with one's own eyes; ocular view.
autonomous
::Independent in government; having the right or power of self-government.
automaton
::Any thing or being regarded as having the power of spontaneous motion or action.
autocratic
::Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute; holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.
authoritative
::Having, or proceeding from, due authority; entitled to obedience, credit, or acceptance; determinate; commanding.
authoritarian
::characteristic of an absolute ruler or absolute rule; having absolute sovereignty; -- of governments or rulers
authenticate
::To render authentic; to give authority to, by the proof, attestation, or formalities required by law, or sufficient to entitle to credit.
austere
::Sour and astringent; rough to the state; having acerbity
auspicious
::Having omens or tokens of a favorable issue; giving promise of success, prosperity, or happiness; predicting good.
auroral
::Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or the northern lights); rosy.
aureole
august
::Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority.
augury
::The art or practice of foretelling events by observing the actions of birds, etc.; divination.
augment
::Enlargement by addition; increase.
audit
::An audience; a hearing.
audacious
::Daring; spirited; adventurous.
atypical
attrition
::The act of rubbing together; friction; the act of wearing by friction, or by rubbing substances together; abrasion.
attribute
::That which is attributed; a quality which is considered as belonging to, or inherent in, a person or thing; an essential or necessary property or characteristic.
attest
::Witness; testimony; attestation.
attenuate
::Made thin or slender.
attentive
::Heedful; intent; observant; regarding with care or attention.
atrophy
::A wasting away from lack of nourishment; diminution in bulk or slow emaciation of the body or of any part.
atrocity
::Enormous wickedness; extreme heinousness or cruelty.
atone
::In concord or friendship; in agreement (with each other). e., to be or bring in or to a state of agreement or reconciliation.
atheistic
::Pertaining to, implying, or containing, atheism; -- applied to things.
atavism
asymmetric
::Incommensurable.
asylum
::A sanctuary or place of refuge and protection, where criminals and debtors found shelter, and from which they could not be forcibly taken without sacrilege.
asunder
::Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two; separately; into or in different pieces or places.
astute
::Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.
astronomical
::Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methods or principles of astronomy.
astringent
::Drawing together the tissues; binding; contracting; -- opposed to <contr>laxative</contr>
astral
::Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike.
astigmatism
::A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which the rays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point, thus causing imperfect images or indistinctness of vision.
asteroid
::A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whose orbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called also planetoids and minor planets.
assurance
::The act of assuring; a declaration tending to inspire full confidence; that which is designed to give confidence.
assuage
::To abate or subside.
regent
::Ruling; governing; regnant.
assumption
::The act of assuming, or taking to or upon one's self; the act of taking up or adopting.
assimilate
::To become similar or like something else.
assiduous
::Constant in application or attention; devoted; attentive; unremitting.
amok
apothegm
::A short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark, conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.
assert
::To affirm; to declare with assurance, or plainly and strongly; to state positively; to aver; to asseverate.
assent
::The act of assenting; the act of the mind in admitting or agreeing to anything; concurrence with approval; consent; agreement; acquiescence.
assay
::Trial; attempt; essay.
assail
::To attack with violence, or in a vehement and hostile manner; to assault; to molest
aspire
::Aspiration.
aspirant
::Aspiring.
aspersion
::A sprinkling, as with water or dust, in a literal sense.
asperity
::Roughness of surface; unevenness; -- opposed to <ant>smoothness</ant>.
askew
::Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry.
askance
::Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or suspicion.
asinine
::Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, as stupidity and obstinacy.
ashen
::Of or pertaining to the ash tree.
aseptic
::Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.
ascribe
::To attribute, impute, or refer, as to a cause
ascetic
::Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.
ascertain
::To render (a person) certain; to cause to feel certain; to make confident; to assure; to apprise.
ascendancy
::Same as ascendency.
artless
::Wanting art, knowledge, or skill; ignorant; unskillful.
artisan
::One who professes and practices some liberal art; an artist.
artifice
::A handicraft; a trade; art of making.
artifacts
arsenal
::A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or naval service.
articulate
::Expressed in articles or in separate items or particulars.
artery
::The trachea or windpipe.
arroyo
::A water course; a rivulet.
arrogance
::The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or which exalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree; proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption; presumption.
arrhythmic
::Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse.
arrears
array
::Order; a regular and imposing arrangement; disposition in regular lines; hence, order of battle.
arraign
::Arraignment.
aromatic
::Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-scented; odoriferous.
armada
::A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.
apothecary
::One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinal purposes.
apostate
::Pertaining to, or characterized by, apostasy; faithless to moral allegiance; renegade.
apoplexy
::Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.
apologist
::One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defense of a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues in defense of Christianity.
apolitical
apogee
::That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest distance from the earth.
apocryphal
::Pertaining to the Apocrypha.
apocalyptic
::Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic revelation.
poise
::Weight; gravity; that which causes a body to descend; heaviness.
aplomb
::Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.
apiarist
::One who keeps an apiary.
apiculture
::Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.
hive
::A box, basket, or other structure, for the reception and habitation of a swarm of honeybees.
apiary
::A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a beehouse.
aphorism
::A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; a sharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than to practical matters.
aphasia
::Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being preserved. It is dependent on injury or disease of the brain.
apex
::The tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything
aperture
::The act of opening.
ape
::A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadæ, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek pouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates, and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. The higher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often called anthropoid apes or man apes.
apathy
::Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement; dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied to the mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference, incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertion by pleasure, pain, or passion.
anvil
::An iron block, usually with a steel face, upon which metals are hammered and shaped.
antithesis
::An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring in the same sentence; as, “The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robs himself.” “He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed at the Queen.”
antiseptic
::Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent tendency in the system; antiputrefactive.
antiquated
::Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned.
antipathy
::Contrariety or opposition in feeling; settled aversion or dislike; repugnance; distaste.
ote
::Honor; grace; favor; mercy; clemency; happy augury.
anticlimax
::A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces a ridiculous effect.
anthropomorphic
::Of or pertaining to anthropomorphism.
anthropologist
::One who is versed in anthropology.
anthropoid
::Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the ourang or gorilla.
anthology
::A discourse on flowers.
anthem
::Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the liturgy, set to sacred music.
antediluvian
::Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time; hence, antiquated.
antecedents
antagonism
::Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or principles.
anonymity
::The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also, that which anonymous.
anomaly
::Deviation from the common rule; an irregularity; anything anomalous.
anomalous
::Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal; irregular.
anoint
::Anointed.
anodyne
::Serving to assuage pain; soothing.
elope
::To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station to which one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man, either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or a sweetheart.
annul
::To reduce to nothing; to obliterate.
annuity
::A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.
annotate
::To make notes or comments; -- with on or upon.
annihilate
::Annihilated.
annex
::Something annexed or appended; as, an additional stipulation to a writing, a subsidiary building to a main building; a wing.
anneal
::To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less brittle; to temper; to toughen.
annals
::A relation of events in chronological order, each event being recorded under the year in which it happened.
animus
::Animating spirit; intention; temper.
animosity
::Mere spiritedness or courage.
animated
::Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicating animation; lively; vigorous.
animadversion
::The act or power of perceiving or taking notice; direct or simple perception.
angular
::Relating to an angle or to angles; having an angle or angles; forming an angle or corner; sharp-cornered; pointed.
anguish
::Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.
anesthetic
anemia
anecdote
::Unpublished narratives.
ancillary
::Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.
anchor
::A iron instrument which is attached to a ship by a cable (rope or chain), and which, being cast overboard, lays hold of the earth by a fluke or hook and thus retains the ship in a particular station.
ancestry
::Condition as to ancestors; ancestral lineage; hence, birth or honorable descent.
anathema
::A ban or curse pronounced with religious solemnity by ecclesiastical authority, and accompanied by excommunication. Hence: Denunciation of anything as accursed.
anarchy
::Absence of government; the state of society where there is no law or supreme power; a state of lawlessness; political confusion.
analogy
::A resemblance of relations; an agreement or likeness between things in some circumstances or effects, when the things are otherwise entirely different. Thus, learning enlightens the mind, because it is to the mind what light is to the eye, enabling it to discover things before hidden.
analogous
::Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing some resemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.
analgesia
::Absence of sensibility to pain.
analgesic
::serving to reduce the sensibility to pain without loss of consciousness.
anachronism
::A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error in chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other, esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification of chronological relation.
amulet
::An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters. [Also used figuratively.]
amputate
::To prune or lop off, as branches or tendrils.
amplify
::To become larger.
ample
::Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious; roomy; widely extended.
amphitheater
::An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an open space called the arena.
amphibian
::Of or pertaining to the Amphibia.
amorphous
::Having no determinate form; of irregular; shapeless.
amorous
::Inclined to love; having a propensity to love, or to sexual enjoyment; loving; fond; affectionate.
amoral
amnesty
::Forgetfulness; cessation of remembrance of wrong; oblivion.
amnesia
::Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease, in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place of those he wishes to employ.
amity
::Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies, or nations; friendly relations; good understanding
amiss
::Wrong; faulty; out of order; improper.
amicable
::Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; after the manner of friends; peaceable.
amiable
::Lovable; lovely; pleasing.
amenities
::things that make you comfortable and at ease.
amend
::To grow better by rectifying something wrong in manners or morals; to improve.
amenable
::Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband.
ameliorate
::To grow better; to meliorate.
ambulatory
::Of or pertaining to walking; having the faculty of walking; formed or fitted for walking.
nectar
::The drink of the gods (as ambrosia was their food); hence, any delicious or inspiring beverage.
ambrosia
amble
::A peculiar gait of a horse, in which both legs on the same side are moved at the same time, alternating with the legs on the other side.
ambivalence
::mixed feelings or emotions; uncertainty or vacillation in making a choice.
ambiguous
::Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect to signification; capable of being understood in either of two or more possible senses; equivocal
ambience
ambidextrous
::Having the faculty of using both hands with equal ease.
amazon
::One of a fabulous race of female warriors in Scythia; hence, a female warrior.
amass
::A mass; a heap.
amalgam
::An alloy of mercury with another metal or metals
amalgamate
::Coalesced; united; combined.
altruistic
::Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to <ant>egoistic</ant> or <ant>selfish</ant>.
altercation
::Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or anger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest.
aloft
::On high; in the air; high above the ground.
aloof
::At or from a distance, but within view, or at a small distance; apart; away.
alluvial
::Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relating to the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place and deposited in another.
siren
::Of or pertaining to a siren; bewitching, like a siren; fascinating; alluring.
allure
::Allurement.
allude
::To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; -- followed by to.
alloy
::Any combination or compound of metals fused together; a mixture of metals; for example, brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc. But when mercury is one of the metals, the compound is called an amalgam.
allocate
::To distribute or assign; to allot.
alliteration
::The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals; as in the following lines: 
alleviate
::To lighten or lessen the force or weight of.
allegory
::A figurative sentence or discourse, in which the principal subject is described by another subject resembling it in its properties and circumstances. The real subject is thus kept out of view, and we are left to collect the intentions of the writer or speaker by the resemblance of the secondary to the primary subject.
allegiance
::The tie or obligation, implied or expressed, which a subject owes to his sovereign or government; the duty of fidelity to one's king, government, or state.
allege
::To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to assert.
allay
::Alleviation; abatement; check.
alimony
::Maintenance; means of living.
alimentary
::Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition; nutritious; alimental.
alienate
::Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.
alias
::Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful.
alcove
::A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess in a library.
alchemy
::An imaginary art which aimed to transmute the baser metals into gold, to find the panacea, or universal remedy for diseases, etc. It led the way to modern chemistry.
alacrity
::A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyous activity; briskness; sprightliness.
agrarian
::Pertaining to fields, or lands, or their tenure; esp., relating to an equal or equitable division of lands.
agog
::In eager desire; eager; astir.
agnostic
::Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to or involving agnosticism.
agitate
::To move with a violent, irregular action
agility
::The quality of being agile; the power of moving the limbs quickly and easily; nimbleness; activity; quickness of motion.
aghast
::Terrified; struck with amazement; showing signs of terror or horror.
aggregate
::Formed by a collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum; collective.
aggrandize
::To increase or become great.
agglomeration
::The act or process of collecting in a mass; a heaping together.
agenda
::a temporally organized plan for matters to be attended to.
agape
::Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.
affront
::An encounter either friendly or hostile.
affluence
::A flowing to or towards; a concourse; an influx.
affliction
::The cause of continued pain of body or mind, as sickness, losses, etc.; an instance of grievous distress; a pain or grief.
affirmation
::Confirmation of anything established; ratification.
affinity
::Relationship by marriage (as between a husband and his wife's blood relations, or between a wife and her husband's blood relations); -- in contradistinction to consanguinity, or relationship by blood; -- followed by with, to, or between.
affiliation
::Adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same family or society.
affidavit
::A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signed and made upon oath before an authorized magistrate.
affected
::Regarded with affection; beloved.
affable
::Easy to be spoken to or addressed; receiving others kindly and conversing with them in a free and friendly manner; courteous; sociable.
aesthetic
::Of or Pertaining to æsthetics; versed in æsthetics
aerie
::The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a brood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence or resting place perched like an eagle's nest.
aegis
::A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; a protection.
advocate
::One who pleads the cause of another. Specifically: One who pleads the cause of another before a tribunal or judicial court; a counselor.
advocacy
::The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating; intercession.
advert
::To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or notice; -- with to.
adversity
::Opposition; contrariety.
adverse
::Acting against, or in a contrary direction; opposed; contrary; opposite; conflicting
adversary
::Opposed; opposite; adverse; antagonistic.
adventitious
::Added extrinsically; not essentially inherent; accidental or causal; additional; supervenient; foreign.
advent
::The period including the four Sundays before Christmas.
adulterate
::Tainted with adultery.
adulation
::Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.
adroit
::Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied to persons and to acts.
adorn
::Adorned; decorated.
admonish
::To warn or notify of a fault; to reprove gently or kindly, but seriously; to exhort.
adjutant
::A helper; an assistant.
adjuration
::The act of adjuring; a solemn charging on oath, or under the penalty of a curse; an earnest appeal.
adjunct
::Conjoined; attending; consequent.
adjacent
::Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on.
adherent
::Sticking; clinging; adhering.
adhere
::To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become joined or united
adept
::Well skilled; completely versed; thoroughly proficient.
address
::Act of preparing one's self.
addle
::Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, as eggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled.
addiction
::The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination.
addendum
::A thing to be added; an appendix or addition.
adapt
::Fitted; suited.
adamant
::A stone imagined by some to be of impenetrable hardness; a name given to the diamond and other substances of extreme hardness; but in modern mineralogy it has no technical signification. It is now a rhetorical or poetical name for the embodiment of impenetrable hardness.
proverb
::An old and common saying; a phrase which is often repeated; especially, a sentence which briefly and forcibly expresses some practical truth, or the result of experience and observation; a maxim; a saw; an adage.
adage
::An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a proverb.
acute
::Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to <ant>blunt</ant> or <ant>obtuse</ant>
acumen
::Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind; the faculty of nice discrimination.
acuity
::Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.
actuate
::Put in action; actuated.
actuary
::A registrar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registrar generally.
actuarial
::Of or pertaining to actuaries.
acrophobia
acrimonious
::Acrid; corrosive.
acrid
::Sharp and harsh, or bitter and not, to the taste; pungent.
acquittal
::The act of acquitting; discharge from debt or obligation; acquittance.
acquiesce
::To rest satisfied, or apparently satisfied, or to rest without opposition and discontent (usually implying previous opposition or discontent); to accept or consent by silence or by omitting to object; -- followed by in, formerly also by with and to.
acoustics
::The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, and laws.
acme
::The top or highest point; the culmination.
acknowledge
::To own or admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth; to declare one's belief in.
acidulous
::Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish.
acetic
::Of a pertaining to vinegar; producing vinegar; producing vinegar.
acerbity
::Sourness of taste, with bitterness and astringency, like that of unripe fruit.
accrue
::Something that accrues; advantage accruing.
accretion
::The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of organic bodies by the internal accession of parts; organic growth.
accoutre
accost
::Address; greeting.
accord
::Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of mind; consent; assent.
accomplice
::A cooperator.
accommodate
::Suitable; fit; adapted.
accolade
::A ceremony formerly used in conferring knighthood, consisting of an embrace, and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat blade of a sword.